https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/eleven-defendants-charged-murder-indian-country
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, May 14, 2021
Eleven Defendants Charged with Murder in Indian Country
Federal Charges Necessary Due to Reversal or Dismissal of State Cases Under the USA Supreme Courts Decision in McGirt v.
Oklahoma
A federal grand jury in the Eastern District of Oklahoma has returned separate indictments charging 11 defendants with murder and other various violent crimes arising out of Indian Country.
Over the course of a three-day grand jury session in the USA District Court for the Eastern District of Oklahoma, trial attorneys with the Justice Departments Organized Crime and Gang Section, working with and in support of the USA Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of Oklahoma, obtained the indictments charging the 11 defendants.
These indictments followed the reversal or dismissal of state cases as a result of the USA Supreme Courts decision in McGirt v.
Oklahoma.
In July 2020, the USA Supreme Court determined in McGirt v.
Oklahoma that the historical boundaries of the Muscogee (Creek) Nation were never disestablished by Congress and therefore that the State of Oklahoma did not have jurisdiction to prosecute Jimcy McGirt for first degree rape and other state crimes.
On March 11, the Oklahoma Court of Criminal Appeals ruled that the Cherokee reservation and the Chickasaw reservation were likewise never disestablished.
Similar rulings affecting the Seminole and Choctaw reservations were issued by the Oklahoma Court of Criminal Appeals on April 1.
As a result of these decisions, the United States has primary federal jurisdiction to prosecute major crimes committed byor againstNative Americans occurring within the 26 counties of the Eastern District of Oklahoma.
The following indictments were returned by the federal grand jury and filed in the USA District Court for the Eastern District of Oklahoma:
United States v.
Gregory Gamblin  Murder in Indian Country.
United States v.
Gunnar Mathew Hemingway  Murder in Indian Country; using, carrying, and discharging a firearm during and in relation to a crime of violence; causing the death of a person.
United States v.
Cody Nash James Murder in Indian Country; causing the death of a person.
United States v.
Brian Mack  Murder in Indian Country.
United States v.
Robert Mitchell  Murder in Indian Country.
United States v.
Clifton Parish  Murder in Indian Country; kidnapping resulting in death in Indian Country.
United States v.
Jeffrey Pierce  Murder in Indian Country.
United States v.
Tyas Short  Second degree murder in Indian Country; using, carrying, and discharging a firearm during and in relation to a crime of violence; causing the death of a person.
United State v.
Devin Sizemore  Murder in Indian Country; second degree murder in Indian Country; voluntary manslaughter in Indian Country; child abuse in Indian Country; assault resulting in serious bodily injury in Indian Country; and assault on a police officer in Indian Country
United States v.
John Duncan Stubbs  Murder in Indian Country; using, carrying, and discharging a firearm during and in relation to a crime of violence; causing the death of a person.
United States v.
Johnson Wisdom  Murder in Indian Country.
Acting Assistant Attorney General Nicholas L.
McQuaid of the Justice Departments Criminal Division; Acting USA Attorney Christopher J.
Wilson of the Eastern District of Oklahoma; and Special Agent in Charge Melissa R.
Godbold of the FBIs Oklahoma City Field Office made the announcement.
The FBI is investigating the cases.
Trial Attorneys Gerald Collins, Rebecca Dunnan, Alex Gottfried, Lisa Man, Matthew Mattis, Christina Taylor, Christopher Taylor, and Kristen Taylor of the Criminal Divisions Organized Crime and Gangs Section are prosecuting the cases with the USA Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of Oklahoma.
An indictment is merely an allegation and all defendants are presumed innocent until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law.
Topic(s):Violent CrimeComponent(s):Criminal DivisionCriminal - Organized Crime and Gang SectionFederal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)USAO - Oklahoma, EasternPress Release Number:21-444
Updated May 14, 2021