https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/attorney-general-william-p-barr-announces-updates-operation-legend-press-conference-milwaukee
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, September 22, 2020
Attorney General William P.
Barr Announces Updates on  Operation Legend at Press Conference in Milwaukee
Charges Announced Against 26 Defendants Alleged to Operate a Violent Drug Trafficking Organization in Milwaukee
At a press conference in Milwaukee today, Attorney General William P.
Barr announced updates on Operation Legend.
He was joined by Matthew D.
Krueger, USA Attorney for the Eastern District of Wisconsin, who announced charges against 26 defendants who allegedly operated a violent drug trafficking organization in Milwaukee.
Law enforcement resources allocated by Operation Legend contributed to the investigation and todays enforcement operation.
Since Operation Legends launch in July 2020, more than 3,500 arrests  including approximately 200 for homicide  have been made; more than 1,000 firearms have been seized; and nearly 19 kilos of heroin, more than 11 kilos of fentanyl (enough to deliver more than five million fatal doses), more than 94 kilos of methamphetamine, nearly 14 kilos of cocaine, and more than $6.5 million in drug proceeds have been seized.
Of the more than 3,500 individuals arrested, approximately 815 have been charged with federal offenses.
More than 440 of those defendants have been charged with firearms offenses, while more than 300 have been charged with drug-related crimes.
The remaining defendants have been charged with various offenses.
The Attorney General launched the operation as a sustained, systematic and coordinated law enforcement initiative in which federal law enforcement agencies work in conjunction with state and local law enforcement officials to fight violent crime.
A prime example of that partnership is the announcement made today by USA Attorney Krueger.
This morning, federal, state, and local law enforcement officers arrested 21 of the 26 defendants charged by criminal complaint with offenses related to a violent drug-trafficking organization that obtained multi-kilogram quantities of cocaine and marijuana from California for distribution in the Milwaukee area.
The officers also executed search warrants in both Milwaukee and California, resulting in the seizure of approximately 33 firearms, $170,000, and over 700 grams of heroin from one location, as well as additional heroin, cocaine, and marijuana from other locations.
Included among the defendants is Louis R.
Perez III, also known as Eight Ball, who is alleged to be a Mexican Posse gang member and the current leader of the nationwide drug trafficking organization.
Several other Mexican Posse gang members have also been charged and arrested.
The details contained in the charging documents are allegations.
The defendants are presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law.
Breakdown of Operation Legend charges:
The initiative, which was first launched first in Kansas City, MO.
, onJuly 8, 2020, is named in honor of four-year-old LeGend Taliferro, who was shot and killed while he slept early in the morning of June 29 in Kansas City.
The operation was subsequently expanded to Chicago and Albuquerque onJuly 22, 2020; to Cleveland, Detroit, and Milwaukee onJuly 29, 2020; to St.
Louis and Memphis onAugust 6, 2020; and to Indianapolis onAugust 14, 2020.
A breakdown of the federal charges in each district is below.
Kansas City, MO.
147 defendants have been charged with federal crimes outlined below.
54 defendants have been charged with narcotics-related offenses;
80 defendants have been charged with firearms-related offenses; and
13 defendants have been charged with other violent crimes.
Chicago, IL.
150 defendants have been charged with federal crimes outlined below.
37 defendants have been charged with narcotics-related offenses;
108 defendants have been charged with firearms-related offenses; and
5 defendants have been charged with other violent crimes.
Albuquerque, NM.
60 defendants have been charged with federal crimes outlined below.
23 defendants have been charged with narcotics-related offenses;
30 defendants have been charged with firearms-related offenses; and
7 defendants have been charged with other violent crimes.
Cleveland, OH.
72 defendants have been charged with federal crimes outlined below.
42 defendants have been charged with narcotics-related offenses;
26 defendants have been charged with firearms-related offenses; and
4 defendants have been charged with other violent crimes.
Detroit, MI.
65 defendants have been charged with federal offenses outlined below.
16 defendants have been charged with narcotics-related offenses;
46 defendants have been charged with firearms-related offenses; and
3 defendants have been charged with other violent crimes.
Milwaukee, WI.
47 defendants have been charged with federal crimes outlined below.
24 defendants have been charged with narcotics-related offenses;
19 defendants have been charged with firearms-related offenses; and
4 defendant has been charged with other violent crimes.
St.
Louis, MO.
205 defendants have been charged with federal crimes.
93 defendants have been charged with narcotics-related offenses;
90 defendants have been charged with firearms-related offenses; and
22 defendants have been charged with other violent crimes.
Memphis, TN.
27 defendants have been charged with federal offenses.
10 defendants have been charged with narcotics-related offenses;
13 defendants have been charged with firearms-related offenses; and
4 defendants have been charged with other violent crimes.
Indianapolis, IN.
45 defendants have been charged with federal crimes outlined below.
7 defendants have been charged with narcotics-related offenses;
33 defendants have been charged with firearms-related offenses; and
5 defendants have been charged with other violent crimes.
Attachment(s): Download Perez Criminal Complaint w Affidavit 9.21.
20Topic(s):Operation LegendComponent(s):Office of the Attorney GeneralPress Release Number:20-981
Updated September 22, 2020