https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/switzerland-s-largest-insurance-company-and-three-subsidiaries-admit-conspiring-us-taxpayers
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, May 14, 2021
Switzerlands Largest Insurance Company and Three Subsidiaries Admit to Conspiring with USA Taxpayers to Hide Assets and Income in Offshore Accounts
Swiss Life Holding AG, Swiss Life (Liechtenstein) AG, Swiss Life (Singapore) Pte.
Ltd.
, and Swiss Life (Luxembourg) S.
A.
Enter into Deferred Prosecution Agreement for Criminal Misconduct; Agree to Collectively Pay More than $77 Million
The Department of Justice today filed a criminal information charging Swiss Life Holding AG (Swiss Life Holding), Swiss Life (Liechtenstein) AG (Swiss Life Liechtenstein), Swiss Life (Singapore) Pte.
Ltd.
(Swiss Life Singapore), and Swiss Life (Luxembourg) S.
A.
(Swiss Life Luxembourg), collectively, the Swiss Life Entities, with conspiring with USA taxpayers and others to conceal from the IRS more than $1.452 billion in offshore insurance policies, including more than 1,600 insurance wrapper policies, and related policy investment accounts in banks around the world and the income generated in these accounts.
The Justice Department also announced a deferred prosecution agreement with the Swiss Life Entities (the Agreement) under which they agreed to accept responsibility for their criminal conduct by stipulating to the accuracy of the Statement of Facts attached to the Agreement.
The Agreement requires the Swiss Life Entities to refrain from all future criminal conduct, enhance remedial measures, and continue to cooperate fully with further investigations into hidden insurance policies and related policy investment accounts.
Further, as part of todays resolution, the Swiss Life Entities agreed to pay approximately $77.3 million to the USA Treasury, which includes restitution, forfeiture of all gross fees, and a penalty component.
If the Swiss Life Entities abide by all of the terms of the Agreement, the government will defer prosecution on the information for three years and then seek to dismiss the charge.
Swiss Life today is held responsible for creating and marketing specially designed insurance products to USA tax evaders seeking a new way to hide their offshore assets, in light of heightened Justice Department and IRS tax enforcement efforts, said Acting Deputy Assistant Attorney General Stuart M.
Goldberg of the Justice Departments Tax Division.
Financial enablers here and abroad  and the taxpayers seeking their services  should know that we will continue to identify and unmask such schemes.

As they admit, Swiss Life and its subsidiaries sought out and offered their services to USA taxpayers to help them become USA tax evaders, said USA Attorney Audrey Strauss for the Southern District of New York.
The Swiss Life Entities offered private placement life insurance policies and related investment accounts to USA customers, and provided services that concealed the policies and other assets from the IRS.
Indeed, the Swiss Life Entities saw USA authorities stepped-up offshore tax enforcement as an opportunity to pitch themselves to tax-evading USA customers as an alternative to Swiss banks.
Under the terms of todays agreement, Swiss Life will turn over more than $77 million and be required to continue to cooperate with the United States in identifying USA tax evaders.

The successful resolution of this investigation is an important victory for the American taxpayer for two primary reasons, said Chief James C.
Lee of the IRS Criminal Investigation.
First, the recovery of more $77 million owed to the USA government sends an unequivocal message that offshore evasion is still a high priority of IRS Criminal Investigation.
Secondly, this agreement further requires Swiss Life Entities to continue to cooperate with the government and does not shield them from future civil or criminal sanctions, which should put every entity engaged in offshore evasion on notice.

According to documents filed today in Manhattan federal court:
Swiss Life Holding is the ultimate parent company of the Swiss Life group of companies (Swiss Life), a Switzerland-based provider of comprehensive life insurance and pension products for individuals and corporations, as well as asset management and financial planning services.
From 2005 to 2014, Swiss Life through affiliated insurance carriers in Liechtenstein (Swiss Life Liechtenstein), Luxembourg (Swiss Life Luxembourg), and Singapore (Swiss Life Singapore), (collectively, the PPLI Carriers) maintained approximately 1,608 Private Placement Life Insurance (PPLI) policies.
The PPLI Carriers issuance and administration of those policies (colloquially known as insurance wrappers) and the related investment accounts were often done in a manner to assist USA taxpayers in evading USA taxes and reporting requirements and concealing the ownership of offshore assets.
Moreover, beginning as early as the summer of 2008, the PPLI Carriers were aware that UBS and other Swiss banks were terminating or reevaluating their business relationships with USA clients in response to increasing offshore tax enforcement efforts by USA authorities.
Certain management and sales personnel within the Swiss Life PPLI Business Unit viewed these developments as a business opportunity to expand the PPLI Business by onboarding USA clients who were fleeing UBS and other Swiss banks.
Such clients with undeclared assets were typically referred within Swiss Life as non-comprehensive advice seeking, which was frequently abbreviated to NCAS.
 Because Swiss Life would be identified as the owner of the policy investment accounts, rather than the USA policyholder and/or ultimate beneficial owner of the assets, the insurance wrapper policies could be and were used by unscrupulous USA taxpayers to hide undeclared assets and income and to evade taxes.
In turn, Swiss Life grew its PPLI business and earned fees on those policies.
Members of management of the PPLI Business Unit knew about and authorized the onboarding of USA clients without regard to whether they were declared or undeclared.
Swiss Life engaged in other misconduct with respect to USA-related policies:
USA-related PPLI Policies were funded or terminated through asset transfers from/to an account maintained by a third party associated with the policyholder, such as an offshore law firm or intermediary.
Swiss Life PPLI personnel assisted USA taxpayers in establishing and maintaining Swiss Life PPLI policies in the name of a foreign relative with the effect of obscuring the USA nexus of the assets used to fund the policy or to repatriate the USA taxpayers undeclared assets through a sham death payout.
Certain USA-related PPLI Policies issued by Swiss Life Liechtenstein involved transfers of physical gold, other precious metals, or precious gemstones into or out of the policy investment account, presumably for the purpose of avoiding detection by USA authorities.
The PPLI Carriers allowed policyholders to designate an authorized recipient  typically the policyholders asset manager or other foreign representative  to receive policy documents and custodian investment account statements, rather than having those documents sent directly to the policyholder.
Certain Swiss Life Liechtenstein personnel promoted the use of Swiss Life products to turn USA taxpayers undeclared or so-called black money into so-called white money by parking the funds in a Swiss Life insurance policy until the clock had run on the perceived statute of limitations for tax offenses.
Corporate premium bank accounts were also misused as a transitory account to help conceal the movement of USA clients funds.
Under todays resolution, the Swiss Life Entities are required to continue to cooperate fully with ongoing investigations and affirmatively disclose any information they may later uncover regarding USA-related insurance policies and related policy investment accounts.
The Swiss Life Entities are also required to disclose information consistent with the Department of Justices Swiss Bank Program relating to accounts closed between Jan.
1, 2008, and Dec.
31, 2019.
The Agreement provides no protection from criminal or civil prosecution for any individuals.
Swiss Life Holding will pay a total of $77,374,337, which has three parts.
First, Swiss Life Holding has agreed to pay $16,345,454 in restitution to the IRS, which represents the approximate unpaid taxes resulting from the Swiss Life Entities participation in the conspiracy.
Second, Swiss Life Holding has agreed to forfeit $35,782,375 to the United States, which represents the approximate gross fees (not profits) that the Swiss Life Entities earned on the penalized insurance policies and related policy investment accounts between 2005and 2014.
Finally, Swiss Life Holding has agreed to pay a penalty of $25,246,508.
The penalty amount takes into consideration that Swiss Life conducted a robust internal investigation, supplied client-related data, facilitated the acquisition by the Justice Department of information relating to custodian banks, asset managers, and other entities and individuals related to Switzerland, Liechtenstein, and Singapore, and otherwise meaningfully assisted the departments cross-border tax enforcement efforts.
In addition, Swiss Life conducted extensive outreach to current and former USA clients to confirm historical tax compliance, and to encourage disclosure to the IRS when policyholders historical tax compliance issues had not yet been resolved.
Swiss Life further implemented remedial measures to protect against the use of its services for tax evasion in the future.
The IRS Criminal Investigation is investigating this case.
This prosecution is being handled by the Department of Justices Tax Division and the Complex Frauds and Cybercrime Unit of the USA Attorneys Office for the Southern District of New York.
Senior Litigation Counsel Nanette Davis and Trial Attorney Jack Morgan of the Tax Division and Assistant USA Attorneys Nicholas Folly and Olga I.
Zverovich of the USA Attorneys Office for the Southern District of New York are in charge of the prosecution.
Topic(s):TaxComponent(s):Tax DivisionPress Release Number:21-441
Updated May 14, 2021