https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/former-army-green-beret-sentenced-russian-espionage-conspiracy
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, May 14, 2021
Former Army Green Beret Sentenced for Russian Espionage Conspiracy
WASHINGTON  A Virginia man and former Army Green Beret was sentenced today to 188 months in prison for conspiring with Russian intelligence operatives to provide them with USA national defense information.
Peter Rafael Dzibinski Debbins, 46, of Gainesville, admitted to conspiring with agents of a Russian intelligence service.
According to court documents, from December 1996 to January 2011, Debbins periodically visited Russia and met with Russian intelligence agents.
In 1997, Debbins was assigned a code name by Russian intelligence agents and signed a statement attesting that he wanted to serve Russia.
Debbins violated his oath as a USA Army officer, betrayed the Special Forces, and endangered our countrys national security byrevealing classified information to Russian intelligence officers, providing details of his unit, and identifying Special Forces team members for Russian intelligence to try to recruit them as spies, said Assistant Attorney General John C.
Demers for the Justice Departments National Security Division.
His conduct is a personal betrayal of colleagues and country, and it reflects the threat of Russian intelligence operations targeting our military.
Todays almost 16-year sentence reflects the seriousness of his conduct.
It should also serve as a warning to those who would be tempted to do the same.

Debbins flagrantly and repeatedly sold out his country, including while he served as a Captain in the USA Army Special Forces, said Acting USA Attorney Raj Parekh for the Eastern District of Virginia.
The defendants brazen disclosures to Russian intelligence agents jeopardized USA national security and threatened the safety of his fellow servicemembers.
This prosecution underscores our firm resolve to hold accountable those who betray their sworn oath and bring them to justice for their exceptionally serious crimes.

The betrayal of fellow USA citizens and servicemembers is inexcusable, and today Debbins was sentenced for his reprehensible and dangerous actions, said Assistant Director in Charge Steven M.
DAntuono for the FBI Washington Field Office.
He was entrusted to serve his country and protect his fellow Special Forces team, but instead he chose to provide classified national defense information to his own countrys adversary.
This investigation which led to todays sentencing is a reminder that the FBI and our partners will continue to diligently and doggedly counter national security threats to the USA
The Green Berets epitomize heroics, leadership, and bravery, but Debbins was just the opposite,said Assistant Director Alan E.
Kohler Jr.
for the FBIs Counterintelligence Division.
Debbins actions in this case show a complete disregard for his fellow soldiers and for his country.
The FBI will do everything in its power to identify those who choose to betray our country and bring them to justice.

From 1998 to 2005, Debbins served on active duty as an officer in the USA Army, serving in chemical units before being selected for the USA Army Special Forces.
The Russian intelligence agents encouraged him to join and pursue a career in the Special Forces, which he did, where he served at the rank of Captain.
Over the course of the conspiracy, Debbins provided the Russian intelligence agents with information that he obtained as a member of the USA Army, including information about his chemical and Special Forces units.
In 2008, after leaving active duty service, Debbins disclosed to the Russian intelligence agents classified information about his previous activities while deployed with the Special Forces.
Debbins also provided the Russian intelligence agents with the names of, and information about, a number of his former Special Forces team members so that the agents could evaluate whether to approach the team members to see if they would cooperate with the Russian intelligence service.
Assistant USA Attorneys Thomas W.
Traxler and James L.
Trump for the Eastern District of Virginia and Trial Attorney David Aaron of the National Security Divisions Counterintelligence and Export Control Section prosecuted the case.
Acting USA Attorney Parekh and Assistant Attorney General Demers greatly appreciate the assistance of Army Counterintelligence, the FBIs Minneapolis Field Office, the United Kingdoms Metropolitan Police Service and MI5.
Topic(s):Counterintelligence and Export ControlNational SecurityComponent(s):Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)National Security Division (NSD)USAO - Virginia, EasternPress Release Number:21-440
Updated May 14, 2021