https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/minnesota-man-charged-providing-material-support-isis
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, September 16, 2020
Minnesota Man Charged with Providing Material Support to ISIS
Assistant Attorney General for National Security John C.
Demers and USA Attorney Erica H.
MacDonald for the District of Minnesota today announced that Abdelhamid Al-Madioum, 23, of St.
Louis Park, Minnesota, has been charged by indictment with providing material support to the Islamic State of Iraq and al-Sham (ISIS), a designated foreign terrorist organization.
Al-Madioum was detained overseas by the Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) and recently transferred into FBI custody.
Al-Madioum was returned to Minnesota where he made his initial appearance before Magistrate Judge Elizabeth Cowan Wright in USA District Court in Minneapolis, Minnesota.
According to the allegations in the indictment and a law enforcement affidavit, from July 8, 2015, through March 15, 2019, Al-Madioum knowingly provided material support and resources, including personnel (namely himself) and services to ISIS.
On June 23, 2015, Al-Madioum, a native of Morocco and naturalized USA citizen, and his family traveled from St.
Louis Park, Minnesota, to Casablanca, Morocco, to visit their extended family.
On July 8, 2015, Al-Madioum left Morocco and traveled to Istanbul, Turkey, and then on to Iraq and Syria, where he joined ISIS.
In March of 2019, Al-Madioum was captured and detained by the SDF.
This case is the result of an investigation conducted by the FBIs Joint Terrorism Task Force.
Assistant USA Attorney Andrew R.
Winter and Trial Attorneys Danielle S.
Rosborough and David Cora of the National Security Divisions Counterterrorism Section are prosecuting the case.
The charges contained in the indictment are merely accusations, and the defendant is presumed innocent until proven guilty.
Attachment(s): Download madioum_indictment.
pdf Download madioum_complaint.
pdfTopic(s):CounterterrorismNational SecurityComponent(s):National Security Division (NSD)USAO - MinnesotaPress Release Number:20-947
Updated September 16, 2020