https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/jacksonville-woman-pleads-guilty-attempting-illegally-exporting-maritime-raiding-craft-and
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, September 16, 2020
Jacksonville Woman Pleads Guilty to Attempting to Illegally Exporting Maritime Raiding Craft and Engines to China
Yang Yang (34, Jacksonville) has pleaded guilty to conspiring to submit false export information through the federal governments Automated Export System and to fraudulently export to China maritime raiding craft and engines in violation of United States (USA) law, and also to attempting to fraudulently export that equipment in violation of USA law.
Yang faces a maximum penalty of 15 years in federal prison.
A sentencing date has not yet been set.
According to the plea agreement, Yang was employed by Shanghai Breeze Technology Co.
Ltd.
, a company headquartered in Shanghai, Peoples Republic of China.
At the direction of co-conspirators in China, she attempted to order from a USA manufacturer seven combat rubber raiding craft equipped with engines that can operate using gasoline, diesel fuel, or jet fuel.
These vessels and multi-fuel engines are used by the USA military and can be operated after being launched from a submerged submarine or dropped into the ocean by an aircraft.
No comparable engine is manufactured in China.
When the USA manufacturer suggested that Yang purchase cheaper gasoline-fueled engines, she insisted that she wanted to purchase the military-model multi-fuel engines.
To induce the manufacturer to sell this equipment, Yang falsely represented that her customer was an entity called United Vision Limited in Hong Kong, rather than Shanghai Breeze Technology Co.
in Shanghai.
One of Yangs Chinese co-workers had told her that American manufacturers would be more likely to sell to an entity in Hong Kong rather than one in mainland China.
By misrepresenting what company was buying the equipment, and where it was located, Yang caused the entry of false information in the Department of Commerces Automated Export System in violation of federal law.
When interviewed by federal agents on Oct.
17, 2019, Yang admitted that she had only one client, Shanghai Breeze, and that based on her communications with a co-conspirator, she knew that the combat raiding craft were not intended for Hong Kong, but instead, mainland China.
On Aug.
13, 2020, Yangs co-defendant, Zheng Yan, also pleaded guilty to conspiring to submit false export information and to fraudulently export the raiding craft and engines in violation of USA law.
The trial of their remaining co-defendants, Fan Yang and Ge Songtao, is scheduled to begin on Feb.
1, 2021.
This case was investigated by the FBI, the USA Naval Criminal Investigative Service, the USA Department of Commerce  Bureau of Industry and Security, and the USA Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives.
It is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Michael J.
Coolican and Heather Schmidt, Senior Trial Attorney, Counterintelligence and Export Section, USA Department of Justice.
Topic(s):Counterintelligence and Export ControlNational SecurityComponent(s):National Security Division (NSD)USAO - Florida, MiddlePress Release Number:20-946
Updated September 16, 2020