https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/operation-legend-case-day-6
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, September 11, 2020
Operation Legend: Case of the Day
Wisconsin Man Charged with Trafficking Heroin, Fentanyl, and Methamphetamine; Illegally Possessing Numerous Firearms
Each weekday, the Department of Justice will highlight a case that has resulted from Operation Legend.
Todays case is out of the Eastern District of Wisconsin.
Operation Legend launched in Milwaukee on July 29, 2020, in response to the city facing increased homicide and non-fatal shooting rates.
United States vs.
Jeffrey R.
Jones
The defendant is alleged to have maintained an arsenal of firearms to facilitate his drug trafficking, said USA Attorney Matthew D.
Krueger for the Eastern District of Wisconsin.
By bringing federal agents to work side-by-side with state and local investigators, Operation Legend is leading to prosecutions that will make Milwaukee a safer place to live.

Jeffrey R.
Jones was charged on Aug.
25, 2020, with federal drug trafficking and firearms offenses.
According to the indictment, Jones is charged with seven drug-related offenses, including distributing methamphetamine, heroin, and more than 40 grams of fentanyl, and possessing with the intent to distribute more than half a kilo of methamphetamine.
The indictment also alleges that Jones possessed firearms in furtherance of the aforementioned drug trafficking crimes.
In addition, Jones is charged with being a felon in possession of the following firearms:
a Sig Sauer P226 .
40 caliber semi-automatic pistol;
an FN Herstal FS2000 5.56 x 45 semi-automatic Carbine rifle;
an Action Arms Uzi Model 45 semi-automatic Carbine rifle;
a Glock 23 Gen 4.
40 caliber semi-automatic pistol;
an American Tactical M1911 GI semi-automatic pistol;
a Ruger LCP II 380 semi-automatic pistol;
a Glock 23 .
40 caliber semi-automatic pistol; and
a Taurus .
357 Magnum revolver.
Because of a previous felony conviction punishable by more than one year in prison, Jones is prohibited from possessing firearms.
The details contained in the charging document are allegations.
The defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law.
Background on Operation Legend
President Trump promised to assist Americas cities that have been plagued by violence.
In July, Attorney General William P.
Barr announced the launch of Operation Legend, a sustained, systematic and coordinated law enforcement initiative across all federal law enforcement agencies working in conjunction with state and local law enforcement officials to fight violent crime in cities across America that were experiencing an uptick in violence.
Operation Legend is named after four-year-old LeGend Taliferro, who was shot and killed on June 29th in Kansas City, Missouri, while asleep in his home.
Operation Legend was launched in Kansas City, Mo.
, on July 8, 2020, andexpanded to Chicago and Albuquerque onJuly 22, 2020, to Cleveland, Detroit, and Milwaukee onJuly 29, 2020, to St.
Louis and Memphis onAug.
6, 2020, and to Indianapolis onAug.
14, 2020.
As part of Operation Legend, Attorney General Barr has directed federal agents from the FBI, USA Marshals Service, DEA and ATF to surge resources to these cities to help state and local officials fighting violent crime.
Since its inception, Operation Legend has yielded more than 2000 local, state, and federal arrests, with approximately 592 defendants charged with federal crimes.
Attachment(s): Download Jones IndictmentTopic(s):Operation LegendViolent CrimeComponent(s):Office of the Attorney GeneralPress Release Number:20-920
Updated September 11, 2020