https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/statement-attorney-general-william-p-barr-19th-anniversary-september-11-2001-terrorist
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, September 11, 2020
Statement by Attorney General William P.
Barr on the 19th Anniversary of the September 11, 2001 Terrorist Attacks
Attorney General William P.
Barr has released the following statement:
Nineteen years ago this morning, our nation was subjected to a horrific, unprovoked terrorist attack that killed nearly 3,000 Americans in New York City, the Pentagon, and aboard United Flight 93  which was downed by heroic passengers who saved untold numbers of lives.
On behalf of the Department of Justice, I convey my sympathy to the families of the victims of all who were lost thattragicday.
Although nearly two decades have passed, we will never forgot those who were murdered.
Norwillwe forget who murdered them.
This departments resolve to protect the people of the United States  and to bring to justice those who would harm them  is as strong as it was on September 12, 2001.
On this anniversary, I extend particular gratitude to the law enforcement personnel and others who responded courageously to the attacks,many of whom gave the last full measure of devotion to save others that day and many of whom have later suffered from illness related to the attacks.
The deadliest day in the history of American law enforcement was also its finest hour.
In the images of police officers and firefighters charging into the burning towers and carrying to safety victims from all walks of life, we see the true character of those who volunteer to protect and serve.
All Americans owe them their gratitude and steadfast support.
The Department of Justice is proud to stand with the law enforcement heroes of September 11, 2001, and we strongly support the permanentSeptember 11th Victim Compensation Fund signed into law last year by President Trump  that has awarded more than $7 billion to them and others still suffering the costs of the attacks.
The Department of Justice honors the courage and sacrifice of all who saved lives on September 11, 2001, and we will be forever grateful to all who selflessly serve in American law enforcement.

Component(s):Office of the Attorney GeneralPress Release Number:20-917
Updated September 11, 2020