https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/department-justice-awards-nearly-50-million-grants-improve-school-safety
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, September 10, 2020
Department of Justice Awards Nearly $50 Million in Grants to Improve School Safety
The Department of Justices Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS Office) today announced nearly $50 million in school safety funding through its School Violence Prevention Program (SVPP).
SVPP provides up to 75 percent funding for school safety measures in and around primary and secondary schools and school grounds.
With the new school year underway, the safety of our nations students remains paramount, said COPS Office Director Phil Keith.
Although this school year may look different at the start, now is the ideal time to make preparations to enhance school safety for when all of our children are back in the classroom.

The Students, Teachers, and Officers Preventing School Violence Act of 2018 (STOP School Violence Act of 2018) gave the COPS Office authority to provide awards directly to states, units of local government, Indian tribes, and public agencies (such as school districts and law enforcement agencies) to improve security at schools and on school grounds in the jurisdiction of the grantee through evidence-based school safety programs.
The 160 awards announced today can be used for coordination with law enforcement; training for local law enforcement officers to prevent student violence; metal detectors, locks, lighting, and other deterrent measures; technology for expedited notification of local law enforcement during an emergency; and other measures that provide a significant improvement in security.
The full list of SVPP awards can be found here:https://cops.
usdoj.gov/pdf/2020AwardDocs/svpp/Award_List.
pdf.
In addition to the school safety grants announced today, the COPS Office School Safety Working Group, which is composed of representatives from eight national law enforcement organizations, has identified 10 essential actions that can be taken by schools, school districts, and law enforcement agencies to help prevent critical incidents involving the loss of life or injuries in our nations schools and to respond rapidly and effectively when incidents do occur.
The Ten Essential Actions to Improve School Safetyare applicable to school shootings as well as to other areas of school safety, including natural disasters and traumatic events such as student suicide.
Adopting policies and practices based on the recommendations in this publication can help make school communities safer and save lives.
The COPS Office is the federal component of the Department of Justice responsible for advancing community policing nationwide.
Since 1994, the COPS Office has invested more than $14 billion to advance community policing, including grants awarded to more than 13,000 state, local and tribal law enforcement agencies to fund the hiring and redeployment of more than 134,000 officers and provide a variety of knowledge resource products including publications, training and technical assistance.
For more information, please visit:https://cops.
usdoj.gov/.
Topic(s):GrantsComponent(s):Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS)Press Release Number:20-906
Updated September 10, 2020