https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/west-virginia-hospital-agrees-pay-50-million-settle-allegations-concerning-improper
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, September 9, 2020
West Virginia Hospital Agrees To Pay $50 Million To Settle Allegations Concerning Improper Compensation To Referring Physicians
Wheeling Hospital Inc.
, an acute care hospital located in Wheeling, West Virginia, has agreed to pay the United States a total of $50,000,000 to resolve claims that it violated the False Claims Act by knowingly submitting claims to the Medicare program that resulted from violations of the Physician Self-Referral Law and the AntiKickback Statute, the Justice Department announced today.
The Physician SelfReferral Law, commonly known as the Stark Law, prohibits a hospital from billing Medicare for certain services referred by physicians with whom the hospital has a financial relationship, unless that relationship satisfies one of the laws statutory or regulatory exceptions.
The AntiKickback Statute prohibits offering or paying remuneration to induce the referral of items or services covered by Medicare, Medicaid, and other federally funded programs.
Both the Stark Law and the Anti-Kickback Statute are intended to ensure that medical decision-making is not compromised by improper financial incentives and is instead based on the best interests of the patient.
Improper financial arrangements between hospitals and physicians can influence the type and amount of health care that is provided, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Jeffrey Bossert Clark of the Department of Justices Civil Division.
The department is committed to taking action to eliminate improper inducements that can corrupt the integrity of physician decision-making.

Our office is committed to ensuring that health care providers in the Northern District of West Virginia abide by the law, said Bill Powell, USA Attorney for the Northern District of West Virginia.
We are pleased this settlement will enable Wheeling Hospital to resolve these prior False Claims Act violations and continue to provide a full range of healthcare services to patients in the area.

Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries trust that their healthcare providers will make decisions based on sound medical judgment, said Scott W.
Brady, USA Attorney for the Western District of Pennsylvania.
Our office will take decisive action against any medical providers which betray that trust and make medical decisions based on their own financial interests.
Our seniors deserve nothing less.

Improper inducements made to physicians can interfere with medical decision-making and undermine the publics trust in the health care system, said Special Agent in Charge Maureen R.
Dixon of the Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General.
Our agency will continue to investigate those who seek to improperly enrich themselves at the expense of public safety and federal health care programs.

In this case, the United States alleged that, from 2007 to 2020, under the direction and control of its prior management, R&V Associates Ltd.
and Ronald Violi, Wheeling Hospital systematically violated the Stark Law and Anti-Kickback Statute by knowingly and willfully paying improper compensation to referring physicians that was based on the volume or value of the physicians referrals or was above fair market value.
The settlement announced today stems from a whistleblower complaint filed in 2017 by a former Executive Vice President of Wheeling Hospital, Louis Longo, pursuant to the qui tam provisions of the False Claims Act, which permit private persons to bring a lawsuit on behalf of the government and to share in the proceeds of the suit.
The Act also permits the government to intervene and take over the lawsuit, as it did in this case as to some of Longos allegations.
Longo will receive $10,000,000 of the settlement.
The United States intervention and settlement in this matter illustrates the governments emphasis on combating healthcare fraud.
One of the most powerful tools in this effort is the False Claims Act.
Tips and complaints from all sources about potential fraud, waste, abuse, and mismanagement, can be reported to the Department of Health and Human Services, at 800HHSTIPS (800-447-8477).
This matter was handled on behalf of the government by the Justice Departments Civil Division, the USA Attorneys Offices for the Northern District of West Virginia and Western District of Pennsylvania, the Department of Health and Human Services Office of the Inspector General, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
The case is captioned United States of America ex rel.
Louis Longo v.
Wheeling Hospital, Inc.
et al.
, No.
19-cv-192 (N.
D.
W.
Va.
).
The claims resolved by this settlement are allegations only and there has been no determination of liability.
Topic(s):False Claims ActComponent(s):Civil DivisionUSAO - Pennsylvania, WesternUSAO - West Virginia, NorthernPress Release Number:20-896
Updated September 17, 2020