https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/philadelphia-men-charged-child-sex-trafficking
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, September 4, 2020
Philadelphia Men Charged with Child Sex Trafficking
Three Philadelphia men were charged, by a federal grand jury, in an indictment unsealed today in the Eastern District of Pennsylvania for their roles in a sex trafficking operation that exploited numerous minors from 2016 through 2017.
Acting Assistant Attorney General Brian C.
Rabbitt of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, USA Attorney William M.
McSwain of the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, and Special Agent in Charge Michel J.
Driscoll of the FBIs Philadelphia Field Division made the announcement.
Andre Michael Felts, aka Dre and Plug, 32, and Kevin Michael Francis, aka Kev, 60, were each charged with one count of conspiracy to sex traffic a minor and four counts of sex trafficking a minor.
Ryan Keel, 39, was charged with conspiracy to sex traffic a minor.
The indictment alleges that Felts ran a prostitution ring that recruited and enticed young females, including minors, to engage in commercial sex acts; harbored the victims at various residences for that purpose; transported and provided the victims to males who purchased the commercial sex acts; and collected a portion of the proceeds.
The charges and allegations contained in an indictment are merely accusations.
The defendants are presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law.
Trial Attorney Jessica Urban of the Criminal Divisions Child Exploitation and Obscenity Section (CEOS) and Assistant USA Attorney Sara Solow of the Eastern District of Pennsylvania are prosecuting the case.
The FBIs Philadelphia Field Division is investigating the case and received significant assistance from the Philadelphia Police Department.
This investigation was a part of Project Safe Childhood, a nationwide initiative to combat the growing epidemic of child sexual exploitation and abuse launched in May 2006 by the Department of Justice.
Led by USA Attorneys Offices and CEOS, Project Safe Childhood marshals federal, state and local resources to better locate, apprehend and prosecute individuals who exploit children via the Internet, as well as to identify and rescue victims.
For more information about Project Safe Childhood, please visit www.
justice.gov/psc.
The year 2020 marks the 150th anniversary of the Department of Justice.
Learn more about the history of our agency at www.
Justice.gov/Celebrating150Years.
Attachment(s): Download Felts IndictmentTopic(s):Project Safe ChildhoodComponent(s):Criminal DivisionCriminal - Child Exploitation and Obscenity SectionUSAO - Pennsylvania, EasternPress Release Number:20-887
Updated September 4, 2020