https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/two-indicted-2-million-scheme-defrauded-over-20-investors
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, May 12, 2021
Two Indicted for $2 Million Scheme that Defrauded Over 20 Investors
An indictment charging a District of Columbia man and Connecticut woman with perpetrating an advance fee and investment fraud scheme that defrauded more than 20 victims of more than $2 million was unsealed today in the District of Columbia.
According to court documents, Paul Maucha, 56, of Washington, D.
C.
, and Melisa Shapiro, 63, of Bridgeport, Connecticut, conspired to engage in a scheme through a shell company they controlled, American Eagle Services Group (AESG), to make numerous misrepresentations about AESG, its assetsand its access to money and capital.
As alleged in the indictment, Maucha and Shapiro enriched themselves by falsely promising to provide victims with financing, surety bondsand investing opportunities through AESG and AESG related entities in exchange for advance fees.
Maucha and Shapiro falsely claimed that AESG could make multimillion-dollar loans to victims and would convince the victims to pay a refundable commitment fee or due diligence deposit before the loans would be made.
Because Maucha and Shapiro themselves spent the fees paid by the victims, they did not have the funds to issue refunds when they failed to fund the promised loans.
In addition, Maucha and Shapiro induced victims to give AESG money for placement in a high-yield investment program and then misappropriated large portions of the victims investments.
Maucha and Shapiro also borrowed funds from at least one victim based on false representations about how the funds would be used and AESGs ability to repay.
Maucha and Shapiro concealed their scheme by lulling victims with false assurances about their promised financial services, AESGs access to capital, and AESGs ability to provide refunds.
Maucha and Shapiro are each charged with one count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud, three counts of wire fraud and two counts of engaging in monetary transactions in criminally derived property.
If convicted, Maucha and Shapiro each face a maximum penalty of up to 20 years in prison for the conspiracy and wire fraud counts and up to 10 years for each count of engaging in monetary transactions in criminally derived property.
A federal district court judge will determine any sentence after considering the USA Sentencing Guidelines and other statutory factors.
Acting Assistant Attorney General Nicholas L.
McQuaid of the Justice Departments Criminal Division; Acting USA Attorney Channing D.
Phillips for the District of Columbia; and Special Agent in Charge J.
Chris Hacker of the FBIs Atlanta Field Office made the announcement.
The FBI is investigating the case.
Assistant Chief William E.
Johnston and Trial Attorney Kyle W.
Maurer of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section and Assistant USA Attorney Joshua S.
Rothstein for the District of Columbia are prosecuting the case.
An indictment is merely an allegation and all defendants are presumed innocent until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law.
Topic(s):Securities, Commodities, & Investment FraudComponent(s):Criminal DivisionCriminal - Criminal Fraud SectionFederal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)USAO - District of ColumbiaPress Release Number:21-433
Updated May 12, 2021