https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/attorney-general-william-p-barr-announces-designation-antoinette-t-bacon-acting-us-attorney
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, September 3, 2020
Attorney General William P.
Barr Announces the Designation of Antoinette T.
Bacon as Acting USA Attorney for the Northern District of New York
Attorney General William P.
Barr announced today that Antoinette T.
Bacon has been designated as the Acting USA Attorney for the Northern District of New York, pursuant to 5 USAC.
 3345(a)(3).
Bacon will replace USA Attorney Grant C.
Jaquith, whoannounced his resignationupon his appointment as a Judge on the USA Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims.
As Acting USA Attorney, Bacon will serve as the Northern District of New Yorks chief federal law enforcement officer, supervising an office of approximately 49 Assistant USA Attorneys, 49 support staff, and 15 contract support staff.
Bacon will be responsible for prosecuting federal criminal offenses and representing the United States in civil litigation in the district.
I am pleased that the President has designated Toni Bacon as Acting USA Attorney for the Northern District of New York, said Attorney General William P.
Barr.
Her contributions to the initiatives she oversaw while working for the Office of the Deputy Attorney General are a testament to her relentless commitment to protect and serve all Americans.
I know the Northern District will find Toni to be an exceptional prosecutor and dedicated leader.

Im honored and humbled to be designated as the Acting USA Attorney for the Northern District of New York.
I look forward to working tirelessly with my fellow federal, state, local, and tribal law enforcement partners to continue the effort to make the community safe for all, said Acting USA Attorney Antoinette T.
Bacon.
I thank Grant Jaquith, a fellow career prosecutor, for his three decades in the USA Attorneys Office and wish him well in his new role on the USA Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims.
His selfless service is truly inspiring.

Prior to her appointment, Bacon served as the Departments National Elder Justice Coordinator.
During her tenure, Bacon spearheaded three of the largest sweeps of Elder Fraud cases, expanded the Departments efforts to dismantle Transnational Criminal Organizations targeting older Americans, and launched the Money Mule Initiative and National Nursing Home Initiative to protect older Americans from fraud schemes and abuse.
As an Associate Deputy Attorney General, she assisted the Deputy Attorney General in formulating and implementing policies, including the landmark, bipartisan Criminal Justice Reform Legislation  The First Step Act.
Bacon is a seasoned and recognized litigator, most notably for leading prosecutions of fraud, waste, abuse, and corruption as an Assistant USA Attorney for the USA Attorneys Office for the Northern District of Ohio (NDOH).
In the NDOH, she earned her reputation for her commitment to root out corruption.
She successfully prosecuted nearly 100 targets and led one of the largest corruption cases in this countrys history.
Dubbed the Cuyahoga County Corruption Case, this nine-year investigation involved the prosecution of 60+ public officials and business executives, including a County Commissioner, a County Auditor, a Cleveland City Council member, two sitting judges, nine attorneys including five former prosecutors, two union leaders, and two senior hospital executives.
The prosecution inspired an overhaul in Cuyahoga County government.
Following her outstanding efforts in NDOH, Bacon went on to serve as the national White Collar Crime Coordinator at the Executive Office for USA Attorneys, where she collaborated with prosecutors in all 94 U.
S.
Attorneys Offices, federal agencies, law makers, corporate counsel, and other stakeholders to address our nations most serious economic crime threats.
Bacon first joined the Department of Justice through the Honors Program, as a Trial Attorney in the Antitrust Division, where she investigated international price fixing cartels.
Prior to joining the Antitrust Division, Antoinette clerked for the Honorable Henry Coke Morgan, Jr.
, USA District Judge, Eastern District of Virginia.
She earned a J.
D.
from the University of Virginia and a B.
A.
in Communications, Law, Economics, and Government from American University.
Topic(s):Office and Personnel UpdatesComponent(s):Office of the Attorney GeneralUSAO - New York, NorthernPress Release Number:20-876
Updated September 3, 2020