https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/attorney-general-barr-joins-president-trump-announcing-41-million-funding-address-public
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, September 1, 2020
Attorney General Barr Joins President Trump in Announcing $41 Million in Funding to Address Public Safety in Wisconsin
Attorney General William P.
Barr joined President Trump today in a visit to Kenosha, Wisconsin, where the President announced $41 million in grant awards to the state of Wisconsin and local jurisdictions within the state to address a surge in community violence and ongoing civil unrest.
Awards will support community-based crime-fighting initiatives, local victim service programs, and the hiring and training of law enforcement officers and prosecutors.
Thanks to the efforts of federal law enforcement and the National Guard, working closely with our state and local partners, the streets of Kenosha have been restored from violent agitators who have abused their First Amendment rights to frighten citizens and fan the flames of disorder, said Attorney General Barr.
As President Trump made abundantly clear today, this lawless behavior will not be allowed to stand and the federal government will provide the necessary resources to help state and local police officers who have worked hard to maintain peace and keep violence at bay.
Todays grant money will help to bolster community-based crime-fighting initiatives and provide much needed support to victims affected by the recent violence.

President Trump and Attorney General Barr toured the city, meeting with local officials and community members to express theirconcern for those affected by the unrest.
The President issued a stern warning to lawbreakers, saying that there would be no tolerance for violence and anarchy in this or any other city.
The grants announced today, from the Departments Office of Justice Programs and Office of Community Oriented Policing Services, will support proven violence reduction efforts like Project Safe Neighborhoods, which enables federal, state and local agencies to coordinate enforcement activities in collaboration with community organizations.
Grants will also help to hire police officers and prosecutors while allowing them to focus resources on the extraordinary public safety challenges their communities are facing.
Funds will also support local organizations that provide services and support to victims affected by the recent violence and unrest.
Topic(s):GrantsComponent(s):Office of the Attorney GeneralPress Release Number:20-859
Updated September 2, 2020