https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/head-new-york-medical-clinics-sentenced-156-months-prison-multimillion-dollar-money
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Monday, August 31, 2020
Head of New York Medical Clinics Sentenced to 156 Months in Prison for Multimillion-Dollar Money Laundering and Health Care Kickbacks Scheme
A Brooklyn man was sentenced to 156 months in prison today for his role in a vast multimillion-dollar health care kickback and money laundering conspiracy, the Department of Justice announced today.
Aleksandr Pikus, 45, of Brooklyn, New York, was sentenced by USA District Judge Ann M.
Donnelly of the Eastern District of New York.
Judge Donnelly also ordered Pikus to pay $39.4 million in restitution and to forfeit $2,614,233.
On Nov.
15, 2019, after a two-week trial, Pikus was convicted by a jury of one count of conspiracy to commit money laundering, two counts of money laundering, one count of conspiracy to pay and receive health care kickbacks and one count of conspiracy to defraud the United States by obstructing the IRS.
For nearly a decade, Aleksandr Pikus stole millions of dollars from the federal Medicare and Medicaid programs in a major healthcare kickback, money laundering and tax fraud scheme, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Brian C.
Rabbitt of the Justice Departments Criminal Division.
This significant sentence holds Pikus accountable for his leadership role in this scheme and reflects the Departments commitment to protecting our valuable federal healthcare programs and their beneficiaries from this kind of fraud.

The defendants key role in an elaborate scheme to steal and conceal tens of millions of dollars from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, was staggering in scope and deserving of the significant punishment he received today, stated Acting USA Attorney DuCharme.
This office takes very seriously its obligation to protect government funds that provide vital medical coverage counted upon by individuals and families who qualify because of their low income, disability or advanced years.

Pikus was the kingpin running a massive money laundering and kickback health care fraud syndicate, said Scott J.
Lampert, Special Agent in Charge for the Office of Inspector General of the USA Department of Health and Human Services.
Now, like others who plot to steal from government health programs, he is paying a heavy price for his crimes.
Along with our law enforcement partners, we will continue to root out individuals who steal vital taxpayer-provided health funds.

The defendants greed and desire for money drove him to perpetrate crimes against our healthcare system and prey upon the vulnerable in our society.
, stated IRS-CI Special Agent in Charge Larsen.
Justice has been served and IRS-CI will continue to work alongside our counterparts to uncover these schemes to hold these criminals accountable for their actions.

According to evidence presented at trial, Pikus and his co-conspirators perpetrated a scheme through a series of medical clinics in Brooklyn and Queens over the course of nearly a decade, which clinics employed doctors, physical and occupational therapists, and other medical professionals who were enrolled in the Medicare and Medicaid programs.
In return for illegal kickbacks, Pikus referred beneficiaries to these health care providers, who submitted claims to the Medicare and Medicaid programs.
Pikus and his co-conspirators then laundered a substantial portion of the proceeds of these claims through companies he controlled, including by cashing checks at several New York City check-cashing businesses.
Pikus then failed to report that cash income to the IRS.
Instead, Pikus used the cash to enrich himself and others and to pay kickbacks to patient recruiters, who, in turn, paid beneficiaries to receive treatment at the medical clinics.
The evidence further established that Pikus and his co-conspirators used sham shell companies and fake invoices to conceal their illegal activities.
More than 25 other individuals have pleaded guilty to or been convicted of participating in the scheme, including physicians, physical and occupational therapists, ambulette drivers, and the owners of several of the shell companies used to launder the stolen money.
This case was investigated by the HHS-OIG and IRS-CI, and was brought as part of the Medicare Fraud Strike Force, under the supervision of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section and the USA Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of New York.
Assistant Chief A.
Brendan Stewart and Trial Attorneys Sarah Wilson Rocha and Andrew Estes of the Fraud Section are prosecuting the case.
The Fraud Section leads the Medicare Fraud Strike Force, which is part of a joint initiative between the Department of Justice and HHS to focus their efforts to prevent and deter fraud and enforce current anti-fraud laws around the country.
Since its inception in March 2007, the Medicare Fraud Strike Force, which maintains 15 strike forces operating in 24 districts, has charged more than 4,200 defendants who have collectively billed the Medicare program for approximately $19 billion.
In addition, the USA Department of Health and Human Services Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, working in conjunction with the HHS-OIG, are taking steps to increase accountability and decrease the presence of fraudulent providers.
Component(s):Criminal DivisionCriminal - Criminal Fraud SectionUSAO - New York, EasternPress Release Number:20-848
Updated August 31, 2020