https://www.usda.gov/topics/animals
African Swine Fever (ASF)
African swine fever is a highly contagious and deadly viral disease affecting both domestic and wild pigs of all ages.
ASF is not a threat to human health and cannot be transmitted from pigs to humans.
It is not a food safety issue.
ASF is found in countries around the world, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa.
More recently, it has spread through China, South Korea and Vietnam, as well as within parts of the European Union.
It has never been found in the United States  and we want to keep it that way.
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) Resources
Animal Diseases
Through applied research and developing technology, USDA helps to reduce economic losses of the livestock and poultry industries and the associated rural agricultural community from infectious, genetic, and metabolic diseases.
This new technology also is aimed at prevention of suffering and death caused by diseases in agriculturally important livestock and poultry.
Animal Health Surveillance
Animal Parasitic Diseases Laboratory
National Animal Health Monitoring System (NAHMS)
National Animal Disease Center
National Veterinary Services Laboratories
Animal Health Research
USDA is continuously conducting animal health research and monitoring to protect threats to our Nations food supply economy.
Agricultural Network Information Center (AgNIC)
Agricultural Online Access (AGRICOLA)
Animal Health National Programs
Animal Production and Marketing Issues
Antimicrobial Resistance (AMR)
National Animal Disease Center
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
USA Meat Animal Research
Animal Well-Being and Stress Management
Consumers are concerned not only with characteristics such as the nutritive content of animal products, but also want assurances that food animals are raised in humane conditions and receive humane treatment during handling and slaughter.
USDA tracks animal health and welfare issues as they relate to food safety and the production and availability of animals for processing into meat.
Animal Health Programs
Animal Welfare Information Center
Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy (BSE)
Bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE), sometimes referred to as mad cow disease, is a chronic degenerative disease affecting the central nervous system of cattle.
A system of interlocking safeguards protects human and animal health, as well as food safety, in the United States.
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) BSE Resources
Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS) BSE Resources
Pet Travel
Traveling with your Pet
Veterinary Biologics
The Center for Veterinary Biologics regulates veterinary biologics, such as vaccines, bacterins, antisera, diagnostic kits, and other products of biological origin to ensure its safety and effectiveness.
Center for Veterinary Biologics