https://www.usda.gov/topics/animals/animal-production
Range and Grassland Management
Rangelands provide the principal source of forage for the cattle and sheep operations on thousands of American farms and ranches.
As human populations increase and demand for food and energy expands, the need for forage and the other range resources will increase.
Range and Pasture Management
National Range and Pasture Handbook
Beef Resources
The United States is the worlds largest beef producer and second largest beef exporter, but significant imports of lower-valued processing beef also make it the worlds largest beef importer.
Cattle and Beef Data and Statistics
Economic Analysis of Beef
Beef Commodity Purchase Programs
Focus on Ground Beef
Certified Beef Programs
National Animal Health Monitoring System
Cattle Reports
Cattle Charts and Maps
Dairy Resources
Milk has a farm value of production second only to beef among livestock industries.
Dairy farms, which are overwhelmingly family-owned and managed, are generally members of producer cooperatives.
Dairy products range from cheese, fluid milks, yogurt, butter, and ice cream to dry or condensed milk and whey products, which are main ingredients in processed foods.
Milk Income Loss Contract Program
Economic Analysis of Dairy
US Dairy Forage Research Center
Dairy Market News
Dairy National Animal Health Monitoring System
Dairy Reports
Dairy Charts and Maps
Poultry Resources
Poultry and egg production is expected to expand in the coming years to meet higher domestic and foreign demand.
The growing demand for relatively low-cost, healthy, and convenient meat products is expected to support higher domestic poultry consumption.
The opening of trade due to bilateral and multilateral trade negotiations is also expected to boost demand for USA poultry products.
Poultry and Eggs Data and Statistics
Poultry Market News
Poultry Programs
Poultry National Animal Health Monitoring System
Poultry Reports
Poultry Charts and Maps
Economic Analysis of Poultry and Eggs
National Poultry Improvement Plan
Pork Resources
The United States is the worlds second-largest pork producer and a major player in the world pork market, ranking second as both an importing and exporting country.
USDA conducts market analyses on the domestic and world pork markets, including domestic supply and utilization, farm and retail pork prices, and international trade.
Hogs and Pork Data and Statistics
Commodity Purchase Programs
Packers and Stockyards
Pork Promotion and Research Program
Economic Analysis of Pork
Safety of Fresh Pork
Swine Contract Library
Hogs and Pigs Reports
Pork Charts and Maps
Alternative Livestock
Alternative livestock production is another option for protecting the genetic diversity in livestock and poultry species through the conservation and promotion of endangered breeds.
Alternative Farming Systems Information Center
Alternative Livestock
Animal Identification
Animal identification systems provide the ability to identify disease control and eradication, disease surveillance and monitoring, emergency response to foreign animal diseases, regionalization, global trade, livestock production efficiency, consumer concerns over food safety, and emergency management programs.
Livestock Identification
Animal Production Research and Reports
Through various market and animal research programs and reports, USDA has developed biotechnological methods and gathered data and statistics to demonstrate the great development of animal productivity in the United States and foreign markets.
Livestock Market News
Animal Production and Marketing Issues
Food Animal Production Program
Livestock Reports
Meat Animals: Production, Disposition, Income Report
Commodity Outlook Reports
Agricultural Charts and Maps
Agriculture Statistics Book
Census of Agriculture