https://www.usda.gov/coronavirus
Need health insurance?
Theres a new Special Enrollment Period for the COVID-19 public health emergency.
You can enroll in or change Marketplace health insurance plans now through August 15, 2021.
Learn more
Efforts and Resources to Contain the COVID-19 Pandemic
In January 2021, President Biden released the National Strategy for the COVID-19 Response and Pandemic Preparedness (PDF, 24 MB).
The plan calls on all parts of the federal government to contribute resources, facilities, personnel, and expertise to contain the pandemic.
The USA Department of Agriculture (USDA) is responding to the Presidents call to action.
In addition to personnel, USDA is offering its facilities, cold chain infrastructure, public health experts, disaster response specialists, scientists and researchers, and footprint in rural areas and Tribal communities across the country.
With a presence in nearly every county in the United States and more than 140 countries around the world, USDA is working alongside federal partners to contain the outbreak and message about the importance of vaccinations for pandemic recovery.
Mask Guidance
Our first priority is to ensure the health and safety of USDA employees, contractors, customers and visitors to USDA facilities and federal lands.
Thats why, in compliance with guidance provided by CDC, USDA requires all on-duty or on-site USDA employees, on-site USDA contractors, and all persons in USDA buildings or on USDA lands to wear face masks, maintain physical distance, and take other public health measures as appropriate.
You may view more information in our COVID-19 Workplace Safety Plan.
Frequently Asked Questions
Select a topic to learn more.
Farmer Resources
Food Assistance
Loans and Grants
School Meals
Food Supply Chain
Animals and Plants
National Forests
Reports and Research
Travel
Vaccines
Coronavirus News
2021-06-02 - FACT SHEET: Update on USDA Activities to Contain the COVID-19 Pandemic
2021-05-26 - FACT SHEET: Update on USDA Activities to Contain the COVID-19 Pandemic
2021-05-19 - FACT SHEET: Update on USDA Activities to Contain the COVID-19 Pandemic
2021-05-12 - FACT SHEET: Update on USDA Activities to Contain the COVID-19 Pandemic
Read More News
Latest Information
For the latest information about how to stop the spread or to learn more about the federal response, visit coronavirus.gov, cdc.gov/coronavirus, and USA.gov/Coronavirus.
USDA will continue providing timely delivery of services across all USDA agencies and offices.
See the News resource summarizing the USDA COVID-19 response.
You may also view our Fact Sheet: Update on USDA Activities to Contain the COVID-19 Pandemic.
In accordance with the Office of Management and Budgets Memorandum M-20-21, all financial information that agencies are required to report concerning their disposition of CARES Act and other supplemental COVID-19 appropriated funds is publicly available on USAspending.gov.
Click on the following link to view the COVID-19 Spending profile page.
Additional Resources
CDC Guidance
Frequently Asked Questions from the CDC
CDC Situation Summary
CDC Food and Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)
CDC What Grocery and Food Retail Workers Need to Know about COVID-19
CDC Considerations for Restaurants and Bars
CDC Considerations for Outdoor Farmers Markets
CDC Considerations for Food Pantries and Food Distribution Sites
CDC Considerations for Outdoor Learning and Community Gardens
Federal Guidance
www.
coronavirus.gov
EPA Disinfectant List
FEMA Coronavirus (COVID-19) Response
Homeland Security Resources
State Department Travel Information
USAspending.gov
World Health Organization
USDA Guidance
Considerations for Prioritization of Supplies During COVID-19 (PDF, 144 KB)
COVID-19 Federal Rural Resource Guide
Personnel Deployments
445 Personnel Currently Deployed
(Mar.
17, 2021)
Since the start of the COVID-19 Vaccination Campaign, the USDA Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) has deployed 311 personnel.
Currently, 220 APHIS personnel remain active, consisting of:
34 employees to support FEMA with planning and logistics;
92 employees to Nevada, Oklahoma, Maryland, and Delaware to administer vaccinations;
8 Safety Officers at a variety of rapid points of distribution including mobile teams and pop-up clinics;
1 employee supporting FEMA Region VI with field operations;
11 employees to Dallas;
9 employees to Chicago;
22 employees to Rhode Island and Wisconsin to prepare the vaccine for those administering vaccines; and
19 intake registrars and 24 floor managers in Oregon.
The USDA Agricultural Research Service (ARS), the Agricultural Marketing Service, and the Food Safety Inspection Service (FSIS) have dispatched 32 veterinarians to assist with vaccination efforts in Nevada, Maryland, and Oklahoma.
The USDA Forest Service has deployed 186 Incident Management Team personnel and they are currently assigned to the National COVID Vaccine Campaign.
Their work includes staffing vaccination centers, providing logistical support, and planning at regional/state levels with FEMA and states.
One (1) member of the Office of the Chief Information Officer (OCIO), one (1) member of the Office of Homeland Security (OHS), one (1) member of the Food and Nutrition Service (FNS), and four (4) USA Public Health Service Commissioned Corps officers detailed to the USDA Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS) are assisting with logistical support for the vaccination campaign.
AskUSDA
The AskUSDA tool makes it easy to find information from across our organization.
Ask USDA a question