https://www.usda.gov/topics/opioids
Opioid Misuse
in Rural America
The United States is experiencing an epidemic of drug overdose deaths.
In 2018, fewer Americans died of drug overdoses (67,367 deaths) than the year before (70,237 deaths) for the first time in more than 20 years.
The drug overdose death rate was lower in 2018 than in 2017 for 15 states.
This news is a source of encouragement but there are still far too many Americans dying from drug overdoses and not all states are seeing decreases.
We must continue our efforts in all aspects of our fight against substance use disorder and the opioid epidemic.
Learn more
Rural Community Toolbox
The Rural Community Toolbox has information on Federal Funding to help build strong healthy rural communities.
It also houses the updated Community Assessment tool with data on broadband access, location information for mental health and substance use facilities, a prosperity index and much more.
Check out the fact sheet and the press release to learn more.
Please contact Betty-Ann Bryce (Betty-Ann.
Bryce@usda.gov) if you have questions about this resource.
Community Assessment Tool
An interactive data tool that empowers community leaders to assess the
causes and impact of opioid misuse in their community.
Use
the Tool
Rural Resource Guide
A listing of Federal programs that can be used to build resilient
communities and address opioid misuse in rural communities.
Download the Guide (PDF, 1.7 MB)
Rural Community Action Guide
The Rural Community Action Guide includes background information, recommended action steps from a diversity of stakeholders, and promising practices for a wide range of issues related to drug addiction in rural America.
Download the Rural Community Action Guide (PDF, 4.2 MB)
The practices described in this supplement have been built and launched by State and local leaders across the country.
These activities were identified as promising practices to showcase because they are something that another community can replicate or use to inspire their own action.
Download the Rural Community Action Guide: Promising Practices (PDF, 1.1 MB)
Media and Events
Funding Opportunities:
Non-USDA
Funding Opportunities:
USDA
Stories of Prevention
Treatment and Recovery
Committed to Being a Strong Partner
In October 2017, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention announced that the rates of drug overdose deaths are rising in rural areas, surpassing rates in urban areas.
In addition, a December 2017 survey by the National Farmers Union and the American Farm Bureau Federation found that as many as 74 percent of farmers have been directly impacted by the opioid crisis.
Under the leadership of President Donald J.
Trump, USDA is approaching the opioid crisis with a dedicated urgency.
The opioid epidemic is devastating to its victims and their families.
It has a compounding ripple effect throughout communities, affecting quality of life, economic opportunity, and rural prosperity.
No corner of our country has gone untouched by the opioid crisis, but the impact of this issue on small towns and rural places has been particularly significant.
USDA is committed to being a strong partner to rural communities on a number of fronts:
Through program resources for prevention, treatment, and recovery opportunities for those in need.
See the many ways your community can partner with USDA (PDF, 528 KB) to meet immediate needs in this fight.
Through program resources to help rural communities address many of the deeper, systemic, and long-term issues making these places vulnerable to the opioid crisis in the first place.
Our infographic illustrates (PDF, 4.8 MB) how USDA can help rural communities respond to the opioid epidemic by addressing some of the root causes.
Through the creation of essential tools for rural leaders to use to understand the impact and cause(s) of the crisis in their community; and tools to understand what federal resources are available to help support grassroots strategies to address this crisis.
Whats Working in Your State
View an interactive map of state projects and watch prevention, treatment, and recovery stories.
See Whats Working
Whats Working in Your Town?
Tell us what actions your rural community is taking in prevention, treatment and recovery.
Share Feedback
Resources
Policy Information
White
House
Council of Economic Advisers Report: the Underestimated Cost of the
Opioid Crisis
Factsheet: President Donald J.
Trump is Taking Action on Drug Addiction
and the Opioid Crisis
Factsheet: The Crisis Next Door: President Donald J.
Trump is
Confronting an Opioid Crisis More Severe Than Original Expectations
President Donald J.
Trump is Combatting the Opioid Crisis
Remarks by First Lady Melania Trump on Combatting Drug Demand and the
Opioid Crisis
Remarks by President Trump on Combatting Drug Demand and the Opioid
Crisis
Statement by the Press Secretary on the Final Report of the Presidents
Commission on Combating Drug Addiction and the Opioid Crisis
VIDEO: The Crisis Next Door, Stories of the Opioid Epidemic
United States
Department of Agriculture
Ag Outlook 2018 Opioid Panel
National Institute of Food and
Agriculture (NIFA)
NIFA Newsletter
Rural Development
United States
Department of Health and Human Services
About the USA Opioid Epidemic
Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention (CDC) Opioid Overdose Information
Health Resources and Services
Administration (HRSA): Help, Resources and Information National Opioids Crisis
Substance Abuse and
Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA)
SAMHSA
Resources (PDF, 172 KB)
SAMHSA
Behavioral Health Treatment Services Locator
United States
Department of Justice
Heroin and Opioid
Awareness
News Release: Department of Justice Awards Nearly $59 Million to Combat
Opioid Epidemic, Fund Drug Courts
News Release: USA Attorneys Office and DEA Launch Opioid Abuse
Prevention Public Awareness Campaign
Opioid
Facts
Additional Information
News
USDA Combating the Opioid Crisis in Rural America
USDA Launches Interactive Data Tool to Help Rural Communities Address
the Opioid Crisis
HHS Awards Over $1 Billion to Combat the Opioid Crisis
USDA Partners with Communities to Support Opioid Prevention, Treatment
and Recovery Opportunities in Rural America
Broadband and the Opioid Epidemic: Connecting Rural Communities to
Hope
20
Seconds of Courage; Fighting Opioid Addiction in Rural Ohio
Assistant to the Secretary Anne Hazlett Statement on Stop Youth Opioid
Abuse Campaign (Press Release)
Broadband and the Opioid Epidemic: The Power of Connection in Rural
America (Op-ed)
USDA Hosts Opioid Roundtable in Berea (WKYT  Kentucky)
Stateline by Pew Charitable Trusts: In Rural Areas Hard Hit by Opioids
a New Source of Hope
Assistant to the Secretary Anne Hazlett Statement on Prescribed to
Death Opioid Memorial
Were Dying: Feds Hear from Utahns Fighting on the Frontline of the
States Rural Opioids Crisis (Salt Lake Tribune)
USDA Prioritizes Investments to Address Opioid Crisis in Rural
America
Farm Groups Launch Farm Town Strong Campaign to Address Rural Opioid
Epidemic
This is an Issue of Rural Prosperity: Nevada Roundtable Spotlights
Opioid Epidemic in Small Communities
RFD-TVs Rural America Live: The Rural Opioid Crisis
Special Opioid Issue Roundtables Being Set up in Rural Areas
Actuality: Wide Range Impacts of Rural Opioid Misuse
Johnson, Duvall, Hazlett: End Stigma of Opioid Abuse
Anne Hazlett Guest Blog: Standing Tall Together Against Opioid
Misuse
USDA Launches Webpage Highlighting Resources to Help Rural Communities
Address the Opioid Crisis
OpEd: Rural America and the Opioid Epidemic: A Call for Partnership
AFBF Annual
Convention Panel Discussion
IndyStar: Agricultural leaders search for solutions to rural opioid
crisis, problem that has come on so fast
Hoosier Ag Today: USDA Rural Development Offers Opioid Epidemic
Resources
AgriPulse Article: USDA doing its part in opioid crisis, Hazlett
says
Partners
Addiction Policy Forum
(APF)
Addiction Technology Transfer
Centers
Community
Anti-Drug Coalitions of America
Farm Town Strong
Indiana
University
NACo and NLC Opioid Hub
National Association of Counties
National Rural Health
Association
National Sherriffs Association (NSA)
North Central Regional Center for Rural Development Webinars (NCRCRD)
Operation UNITE
Providers Clinical Support System
Rural
Heath Information Hub
State Targeted Response Technical
Assistance
State
Government Resources
State Government Resources
AKAlaska
Alaska Dept.
of Health and Human Services OTF
ALAlabama
Alabama Dept.
of Public Health
AZArizona
Arizona Dept.
of Health Services
CACalifornia
California Dept.
of Public Health
COColorado
Colorado Dept.
of Human Services
CTConnecticut
Connecticut State Dept.
of Public Health
DEDelaware
Delaware
Division of Public HealthDE
GAGeorgia
Georgia Dept.
of Public HealthGA
IDIdaho
Idaho Dept of Health and Welfare
ILIllinois
Illinois Dept.
of Public Health Opioids Dashboard
INIndiana
Indiana Dept.
Of Public Health OTP
IAIowa
Iowa Dept.
of Public
Health OTP
KSKansas
Kansas Dept.
of
Public HealthKS
LALouisiana
Louisiana
Dept of Health
MAMassachusetts
Massachusetts Dept.
of Health
MDMaryland
Maryland
Dept.
of HealthMD
MIMichigan
Michigan Dept.
of Health and Human Services
MNMinnesota
Minnesota Dept.
of Health
MOMissouri
Missouri Dept.
of Health and Senior Services
MSMississippi
Mississippi State Dept.
of Health
MTMontana
Montana Dept.
of Health and Human Services
NCNorth Carolina
North Carolina Health and Human Services
NDNorth Dakota
North Dakota Dept of Human Service
NHNew Hampshire
New
Hampshire Dept.
of Health and Human Services
NJNew Jersey
New Jersey Dept.
of Human Services
NVNevada
Nevada Division of Public and Behavioral Health
NYNew York
New York Dept.
of Health
OHOhio
Ohio Mental Health and Addictions Services
OKOklahoma
Oklahoma State Dept of HealthOK
PAPennsylvania
Pennsylvania Dept of HealthPA
RIRhode Island
Rhode Island Dept of Health
SCSouth Carolina
South
Carolina Dept of Health and Environmental Control
SDSouth Dakota
South Dakota
Dept of Health
TNTennessee
Tennessee Dept.
of Health
TXTexas
Texas Medical
Association
UTUtah
Utah Department of Health
Opidemic Utah
VAVirginia
Virginia Dept of Health
WAWashington
Washington State Dept of Health
WIWisconsin
Wisconsin Dept of Health Services
WVWest Virginia
West
Virginia Dept of Public Health
WYWyoming
Wyoming Dept of Health