https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/four-former-minneapolis-police-officers-indicted-federal-civil-rights-charges-death-george
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, May 7, 2021
Four Former Minneapolis Police Officers Indicted on Federal Civil Rights Charges for Death of George Floyd; Derek Chauvin Also Charged in Separate Indictment for Violating Civil Rights of a Juvenile
Note:A copy of the indictment against Chauvin et al.
can be viewed hereand the two count indictment against Chauvin can be viewedhere.
WASHINGTON  A federal grand jury in Minneapolis, Minnesota, returned two indictments that were unsealed today.
The first indictment charges former Minneapolis Police Department officers Derek Chauvin, 45; Tou Thao, 35; J.
Alexander Kueng, 27; and Thomas Lane, 38, with federal civil rights crimes for their roles in the death of George Perry Floyd Jr.
The three-count indictment alleges that all four defendants, while acting under color of law, willfully deprived Mr.
Floyd of his constitutional rights, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 242.
Specifically, Count One of the indictment alleges that on May 25, 2020, Chauvin held his left knee across Mr.
Floyds neck, and his right knee on Floyds back and arm, as George Floyd lay on the ground, handcuffed and unresisting, and kept his knees on Mr.
Floyds neck and body even after Mr.
Floyd became unresponsive.
The indictment alleges that Chauvins actions violated Mr.
Floyds constitutional right to be free from the use of unreasonable force by a police officer and resulted in bodily injury to, and the death of, Mr.
Floyd.
Count Two of the indictment charges that Thao and Kueng willfully failed to intervene to stop Chauvins use of unreasonable force, resulting in bodily injury to, and the death of, Mr.
Floyd.
Finally, Count Three of the indictment alleges that all four defendants saw Mr.
Floyd lying on the ground in clear need of medical care and willfully failed to aid him.
The indictment alleges that by doing so, all four defendants willfully deprived Mr.
Floyd of his constitutional right not to be deprived of liberty without due process of law, which includes an arrestees right to be free from a police officers deliberate indifference to his serious medical needs.
The indictment alleges that this offense resulted in bodily injury to, and the death of, Mr.
Floyd.
A separate, two-count indictment also charges Chauvin with willfully depriving a Minneapolis resident who was then fourteen-years-old of the constitutional right to be free from the use of unreasonable force by a police officer, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 242.
Count One of this indictment alleges that on Sept.
4, 2017, Chauvin, without legal justification, held the teenager by the throat and struck the teenager multiple times in the head with a flashlight.
The indictment alleges that this offense included the use of a dangerous weapona flashlightand resulted in bodily injury to the teenager.
Count Two of the indictment charges that Chauvin held his knee on the neck and the upper back of the teenager even after the teenager was lying prone, handcuffed, and unresisting, also resulting in bodily injury.
Both indictments charge violations of Title 18, United States Code, Section 242.18 USAC.
 242 states that it is a crime for an official acting under color of law to willfully violate a persons constitutional rights.
If government employees, like police officers, use or misuse the power provided to them by their position, they are acting under color of law.

An indictment is merely a formal accusation of criminal conduct.
The defendants are presumed innocent unless and until they are proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law.
The charges announced today are separate from the Justice Departments civil pattern or practice investigation into the City of Minneapolis and the Minneapolis Police Department that the Attorney General announced on April 21.
The charges announced today are criminal, while the pattern or practice investigation is a civil investigation that will be conducted separately and independently from the criminal case, and will be handled by a different team of career staff from the Civil Rights Division and the USA Attorneys Office.
The charges announced today are also separate from, and in addition to, the charges the State of Minnesota has brought against these former officers related to the death of Mr.
Floyd.
The federal charges allege different criminal offenses; specifically, they allege violations of the USA Constitution, rather than of state law.
Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Pamela S.
Karlan and Acting USA Attorney W.
Anders Folk for the District of Minnesota commend the investigative efforts of the FBI and the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension in this matter, and thank the Minneapolis Police Department for its cooperation in the investigation.
The federal criminal cases are being prosecuted by Acting USA Attorney W.
Anders Folk of the District of Minnesota, Special Litigation Counsel Samantha Trepel and Trial Attorney Tara Allison of the Civil Rights Division of the USA Department of Justice, and Assistant USA Attorneys Samantha Bates, LeeAnn Bell, Evan Gilead, Manda Sertich and Allen Slaughter of the District of Minnesota.
Topic(s):Civil RightsComponent(s):Civil Rights DivisionUSAO - MinnesotaPress Release Number:21-416
Updated May 7, 2021