https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/federal-court-finds-florida-tax-preparers-contempt-violating-court-s-preliminary-injunction
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, June 4, 2021
Federal Court Finds Florida Tax Preparers in Contempt for Violating Courts Preliminary Injunction
On Thursday, a federal court in the Southern District of Florida held two individuals, as well as the company they allegedly co-own, in contempt for violating a preliminary injunction that restricted their tax preparation activities.
The courts order notes defendants admit that sufficient evidence exists to hold them in contempt of court for violating the preliminary injunction.

The United States filed a complaint against Wendell Devallon, Berald Dominique, and Tax Time Group Inc.
on Dec.
4, 2020, seeking to enjoin them from preparing returns for others.
The complaint alleges that Devallon and Dominique co-own Tax Time Group Inc.
, which has its principal place of business in North Lauderdale, Florida, and additional offices in Charlotte, North Carolina; Niagara Falls, New York; Buffalo, New York; and Evansville, Indiana.
According to the complaint, defendants prepared tax returns for customers that claimed fraudulent self-employment expenses, fictitious education credits, and fake charitable contributions, among other schemes.
The complaint also alleged that Devallon and Dominique acted as ghost preparers, meaning that they acted as paid tax return preparers but did not sign the returns they prepared, as required by law.
On Jan.
13, 2021, the court entered a stipulated preliminary injunction against all three defendants, requiring them to cease all tax preparation and filing services at certain offices, including a location at 995 SW 71st Avenue, North Lauderdale, FL 33068.
On May 3, 2021, the United States sought an order to show cause and a temporary restraining order, alleging that Devallon, Dominique, and Tax Time Group Inc.
were violating that preliminary injunction.
According to the show cause motion, defendants continued to prepare returns out of the 995 SW 71st Avenue location but masked their involvement in the prohibited activities by submitting those returns through entities purportedly based in Indiana and Pennsylvania.
The motion for a temporary restraining order alleged that proceeds from the prohibited return preparation were being deposited into five bank accounts, three of which were held in the name of nominee entities.
On May 12, 2021, the court entered a temporary restraining order prohibiting Devallon, Dominique, and Tax Time Group Inc.
from accessing the funds in those five bank accounts.
On Thursday, the United States and defendants jointly moved for an order holding defendants in contempt, which motion was granted the same day.
The court will determine appropriate sanctions at a later date.
Acting Assistant Attorney General David A.
Hubbert of the Justice Departments Tax Division made the announcement.
Return preparer fraud is one of the IRSsDirty Dozen Tax Scamsand taxpayers seeking a return preparer should remain vigilant.
(More information can also be foundhere.
) The IRS has information on itswebsitefor choosing a tax preparer, has launched afree directoryof federal tax preparers, and offers information on how toavoid ghost tax preparers, whose refusal to sign a return should be a red flag to taxpayers.
In the past decade, the Tax Division has obtained injunctions against hundreds of unscrupulous tax preparers.
Information about these cases is available on the Justice Departmentswebsite.
An alphabetical listing of persons enjoined from preparing returns and promoting tax schemes can be found onthis page.
If you believe that one of the enjoined persons or businesses may be violating an injunction,please contact theTax Division with details.
Topic(s):TaxComponent(s):Tax DivisionPress Release Number:21-521
Updated June 4, 2021