https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/federal-court-shuts-down-florida-tax-return-preparer-2
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, April 30, 2021
Federal Court Shuts Down Florida Tax Return Preparer
Today, a federal court in Fort Pierce, Florida, permanently barred a Florida tax return preparer from preparing federal tax returns for others.
According to the complaint, Brandhi Shaw prepared tax returns in Belle Glade, Florida, at Premier Financial Services and Premium Financial Solutions.
The complaint alleges that Shaw prepared tax returns that purposefully understated the tax her customers owed or overstated the refunds they were entitled to claim.
For example, Shaw allegedly prepared tax returns for customers that fabricated business expenses of over $40,000 in one case and over $20,000 in expenses plus over $22,000 in costs of goods sold in another.
The civil injunction order, to which Shaw agreed, was signed by Judge Aileen Cannon of the USA District Court for the Southern District of Florida.
Return preparer fraud is one of the IRSDirty Dozen Tax Scamsand taxpayers seeking a return preparer should remain vigilant.
(More information can also be foundhere.
) The IRS has information on itswebsitefor choosing a tax preparer and has launched afree directoryof federal tax preparers.
In addition,IRS Free File, a public-private partnership, offers free online tax preparation and filing options on IRS partner websites for individuals whose adjusted gross income is under $72,000.
For individuals whose income is over that threshold, IRS Free File offers electronical federal tax forms that can be filled out and filed online for free.
In the past decade, the Tax Division has obtained injunctions against hundreds of unscrupulous tax preparers.
Information about these cases is available on the Justice Departmentswebsite.
An alphabetical listing of persons enjoined from preparing returns and promoting tax schemes can be found onthis page.
If you believe thatone of the enjoined persons or businesses may be violating an injunction, please contact theTax Divisionwith details.
Topic(s):TaxComponent(s):Tax DivisionPress Release Number:21-397
Updated April 30, 2021