https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/justice-department-announces-opening-nominations-fifth-annual-attorney-general-s-award
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, April 30, 2021
Justice Department Announces the Opening of Nominations for the Fifth Annual Attorney Generals Award for Distinguished Service in Community Policing
USA Attorney General Merrick B.
Garland today announced the Department of Justice is now accepting nominations for the Fifth Annual Attorney Generals Award for Distinguished Service in Community Policing.
These awards represent part of the Department of Justices on-going commitment to support the nations law enforcement officers who put their lives on the line every day to keep our communities safe.
Effective community policing builds trust between law enforcement officers and those they serve, and that trust helps to improve public safety, said Attorney General Garland.
These awards honor the exceptional dedication and hard work of law enforcement officers who have gone above and beyond in the performance of their duties, and departments that have excelled in their community policing efforts.
Policing is a difficult job, for which extraordinary efforts often go unnoticed, and the Department of Justice is proud to publicly recognize these exemplars of community policing.

The Attorney Generals Award recognizes individual state, local and tribal sworn, rank- and-file police officers and deputies for exceptional efforts in community policing.
The awarded officers, deputies and troopers will have demonstrated active engagement with the community in one of three areas: criminal investigations, field operations or innovations in policing.
Within each category, an award will be given to law enforcement agencies serving small, medium, and large jurisdictions.
Those agency sizes are defined as:
Small: agencies serving populations of fewer than 50,000
Medium: agencies serving populations of 50,000 to 250,000
Large: agencies serving populations of more than 250,000
By acknowledging and rewarding these efforts, the department strives to promote and sustain its national commitment to community policing and to advance proactive policing practices that are fair and effective.
With the Attorney Generals Award for Distinguished Service in Community Policing, the Office of the Attorney General recognizes that the nations law enforcement agencies, officers, deputies, and troopers continue to work tirelessly to keep our communities safe places to live and work.
The deadline for nominations is May 28, 2021, at 8 p.
m.
EDT.
More information and the application for nominees can be found at: https://www.
justice.gov/ag/policing-award.
Component(s):Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS)Office of the Attorney GeneralPress Release Number:21-396
Updated April 30, 2021