https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/three-georgia-men-charged-federal-hate-crimes-and-attempted-kidnapping-connection-death
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, April 28, 2021
Three Georgia Men Charged with Federal Hate Crimes and Attempted Kidnapping in Connection with the Death of Ahmaud Arbery
Three Georgia men were indicted today by a federal grand jury in the Southern District of Georgia and charged with hate crimes and the attempted kidnapping of Ahmaud Arbery.
The indictment also charges two of the men with separate counts of using firearms during that crime of violence.
Travis McMichael, 35; Traviss father, Gregory McMichael, 65; and William Roddie Bryan, 51, were each charged with one count of interference with rights and with one count of attempted kidnapping.
Travis and Gregory McMichael were also charged with one count each of using, carrying, and brandishingand in Traviss case, discharginga firearm during and in relation to a crime of violence.
Counts One and Two of the indictment allege that the defendants used force and threats of force to intimidate and interfere with Arberys right to use a public street because of his race.
Specifically, Count One of the indictment alleges that as Arbery was running on a public street in the Satilla Shores neighborhood of Brunswick, Georgia, Travis and Gregory McMichael armed themselves with firearms, got into a truck, and chased Arbery through the public streets of the neighborhood while yelling at him, using their truck to cut off his route, and threatening him with firearms.
Count One also alleges that the offense resulted in Arberys death.
Count Two alleges that William Roddie Bryan joined the chase and used his truck to cut off Arberys route.
In addition to the hate-crime charges, Count Three alleges that all three defendants attempted to unlawfully seize and confine Arbery by chasing after him in their trucks in an attempt to restrain him, restrict his free movement, corral and detain him against his will, and prevent his escape.
Counts Four and Five allege that during the course of the crime of violence charged in Count One, Travis used, carried, brandished, and discharged a Remington shotgun, and Gregory used, carried, and brandished a .
357 Magnum revolver.
All three defendants have also been charged in a separate state proceeding with malice murder, felony murder, aggravated assault, false imprisonment, and criminal attempt to commit a felony.
No trial date has been set for the state case.
The announcement was made by Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Pamela S.
Karlan of the Justice Departments Civil Rights Division, Acting USA Attorney David Estes of the Southern District of Georgia, and Special Agent in Charge J.
C.
Hacker of the FBI.
This case was investigated by both the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Georgia Bureau of Investigation and is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Tara Lyons of the Southern District of Georgia, and Deputy Chief Bobbi Bernstein and Special Litigation Counsel Christopher J.
Perras of the Civil Rights Division.
An indictment is a formal accusation of conduct, not evidence of guilt.
A defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty.
Attachment(s): Download Indictment.
pdfComponent(s):Civil Rights DivisionPress Release Number:21-387
Updated April 28, 2021