https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/texas-man-pleads-guilty-hate-crime-charges-after-using-dating-app-target-gay-men-violent
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, June 3, 2021
Texas Man Pleads Guilty to Hate Crime Charges  After Using Dating App to Target Gay Men for Violent Crimes
A Texas man pleaded guilty yesterday to federal hate crime charges in the USA District Court for the Northern District of Texas.
According to court documents, Daniel Jenkins, 22, of Dallas, pleaded guilty yesterdayto a federal hate crime and two other charges in connection with his involvement in a scheme to target gay men for violent crimes, announced Assistant Attorney General Kristen Clarke of the Justice Departments Civil Rights Division, Acting USA Attorney for the Northern District of Texas Prerak Shah, and FBI Special Agent-in-Charge Matthew J.
DeSarno of the Dallas Field Office.
Jenkins is the last of four defendants to plead guilty to charges stemming from the scheme.
Jenkins pleaded guilty to one hate crime count, one count of conspiracy to commit hate crimes, kidnapping, and carjacking, and one count of use of a firearm during and in relation to a crime of violence.
The Department of Justice and the Civil Rights Division are committed to confronting the scourge of hate-based violence gripping communities across our nation, said Assistant Attorney General Kristen Clarke of the Justice Departments Civil Rights Division.
We denounce hate-based violence in all of its forms, including violence targeting individuals based on sexual orientation and gender identity.
We will continue to diligently investigate and prosecute violent, bias-motivated crimes to the fullest extent.
As noted by Attorney General Garland, we stand ready to use every tool in our arsenal to address the rise in hate and we will work to hold perpetrators of hate-motivated violence accountable.

These defendants brutalized multiple victims, singling them out due to their sexual orientation.
We cannot allow this sort of violence to fester unchecked, said Acting USA Attorney Prerak Shah of the Northern District of Texas.
The Department of Justice is committed to prosecuting hate crimes.
In the meantime, we urge dating app users to remain vigilant.
Unfortunately, predators often lurk online.

Investigating hate crimes is one of the FBIs highest priorities because of the devastating impact they have on families and communities, said FBI Dallas Special Agent in Charge Matthew DeSarno.
We are committed to the pursuit of offenders and holding them accountable for perpetrating these harmful crimes.
No one should have to live in fear of violence because of who they are, where they are from or what they believe.
We will continue working with our law enforcement and community partners to detect and prevent violent incidents motivated by hate or bias.
We also urge the public to report any suspected hate crimes to the FBI and local law enforcement.

According to court documents filed in connection with his guilty plea, Jenkins admitted that he and his co-conspirators used Grindr, a social media dating platform used primarily by gay men, to lure gay men to a vacant apartment and other areas in and around Dallas for robbery, carjacking, kidnapping, and hate crimes over the course of approximately a week in December 2017.
Jenkins admitted that he and his co-conspirators held victims against their will; pointed a handgun at victims and took their personal property, including their vehicles; and traveled to local ATMs to withdraw cash from the victims accounts.
Jenkins further admitted that he and his co-conspirators physically injured at least one victim and taunted the victims based upon the co-conspirators perception of the mens sexual orientation.
In March 2019, Michael Atkinson pleaded guilty to conspiracy and kidnapping charges in connection with this case.
In December 2019, Daryl Henry and Pablo Ceniceros-Deleon pleaded guilty to a federal hate crime and other charges in connection with this case.
Sentencing for these three defendants is set for June 23.
Daniel Jenkins sentencing is set for Oct.
6.
Pursuant to the terms of the plea agreement, Jenkins faces a sentence of up to 26 years in prison.
The FBIs Dallas Field Office conducted the federal investigation; a separate criminal investigation is being conducted by the Dallas Police Department.
Special Litigation Counsel Rose E.
Gibson and Trial Attorney Kathryn Gilbert of the Justice Departments Civil Rights Division along with Assistant USA Attorney Nicole Dana of the Northern District of Texas are prosecuting the case.
Topic(s):Hate CrimesComponent(s):Civil Rights DivisionPress Release Number:21-518
Updated June 3, 2021