https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/former-minister-industry-and-member-parliament-barbados-sentenced-laundering-bribes
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, April 27, 2021
Former Minister of Industry and Member of Parliament of Barbados Sentenced for Laundering Bribes
A former Minister of Industry and elected member of Parliament of Barbados was sentenced today to two years in prison for his role in a scheme to launder bribe payments from a Barbadian insurance company through bank accounts in New York.
Donville Inniss, 55, a USA lawful permanent resident who resided in Tampa, Florida, and Barbados, was convicted by a federal jury of two counts of money laundering and one count of conspiracy to commit money laundering on Jan.
16, 2020.
According to the evidence presented at trial, in 2015 and 2016, Inniss took part in a scheme to launder into the United States approximately $36,000 in bribes that he had received from high-level executives of the Insurance Corporation of Barbados Limited (ICBL).
In exchange for the bribes, Inniss leveraged his position as the Minister of Industry to enable ICBL to obtain two insurance contracts from the Barbados government to insure over $100 million worth of government property.
To conceal the bribes, Inniss arranged to receive them through a USA bank account in the name of his friends dental company, which had an address in Elmont, New York.
Donville Inniss engaged in a bribery and money laundering scheme to line his own pockets at the expense of the people of Barbados, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Nicholas L.
McQuaid of the Justice Departments Criminal Division.
International corruption undermines trust in governments, threatens our national security, and prevents the free market from functioning fairly for law-abiding people and companies.
Todays sentence sends a strong message that the Department is committed to prosecuting corrupt officials like Inniss who seek to use the USA financial system to hide their bribe payments.

In accepting bribes and laundering the payments through banks on Long Island, Inniss not only abused the public trust that was placed in him by the people of Barbados, he also stained the USA banking system with the proceeds of his corrupt scheme, said Acting USA Attorney Mark J.
Lesko of the Eastern District of New York.
The defendants sentence today reflects the seriousness of his crimes.

In addition to the prison sentence, the court also ordered Inniss to pay $36,536.73 in forfeiture.
The FBI investigated the case.
Assistant Chief Gerald M.
Moody Jr.
of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section and Assistant USA Attorneys Sylvia Shweder and David Gopstein for the Eastern District of New York prosecuted the case.
Assistant USA Attorney Claire Kedeshian is handling the forfeiture aspects of the case.
The Justice Departments Office of International Affairs also provided assistance in this matter.
The department appreciates the cooperation provided by its law enforcement colleagues in Barbados during this investigation.
The Fraud Section is responsible for investigating and prosecuting all Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) matters.
Additional information about the Justice Departments FCPA enforcement efforts can be found at www.
justice.gov/criminal/fraud/fcpa.
Topic(s):Foreign CorruptionComponent(s):Criminal DivisionCriminal - Criminal Fraud SectionCriminal - Office of International AffairsFederal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)USAO - New York, EasternPress Release Number:21-382
Updated April 27, 2021