https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/american-contractor-sentenced-theft-government-equipment-us-military-base-afghanistan
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, April 27, 2021
American Contractor Sentenced for Theft of Government Equipment on USA Military Base in Afghanistan
An American military contractor was sentenced today to51 months in prison for her role in a theft ring on a military installation in Kandahar, Afghanistan.
Varita V.
Quincy, 35, of Snellville, Georgia pleaded guilty on Oct.
13, 2020, to one count of conspiracy to defraud the United States and commit theft of property of value to the United States and one count of making false statements.
According to court documents, Quincy admitted that, between April 2015 and July 2015, she and others conspired to and did steal property of value to the United States including generators, a truck, and other items worth over $150,000.
Larry Green, one of her co-conspirators, negotiated the sale of the stolen property with a third-country national middleman, who in turn facilitated the sale of the items to unknown persons in Kandahar.
Quincy further admitted that, to effectuate the theft of the generators, she used her position as a security badging and escort pass supervisor to create or cause to be made false official documents.
The false official documents facilitated both the entry of unknown and unvetted Afghan nationals and their vehicles on to the military installation and effectuated the removal of the stolen property from the installation.
The falsified documents were used to deceive security officers and gate guards and compromised the security of USA military and civilian personnel on the military installation.
Green pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to defraud the United States and commit theft of property of value to the United States; one count of theft of property of value to the United States; and one count of aiding and abetting the submission of false statements, and was sentenced on Nov.
19, 2020, to 41 months in prison and ordered to pay $179,708 in restitution.
Quincy also was ordered to pay restitution in the amount of $179,708.
Further, Quincys sentence reflected her fraudulent post-trial conduct of submitting altered documents to the court on her behalf in advance of sentencing.
Acting Assistant Attorney General Nicholas L.
McQuaid of the Justice Departments Criminal Division; Acting USA Attorney Raj Parekh of the Eastern District of Virginia; and Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (SIGAR) John F.
Sopko made the announcement.
SIGAR investigated the case with help from Army Criminal Investigation Command (CID) and the 939th Military Police Detachment of the Indiana Army National Guard.
Trial Attorneys Sasha N.
Rutizer of the Criminal Divisions Human Rights and Special Prosecutions Section, Rosaleen OGara of the Criminal Divisions Public Integrity Section, and Assistant USA Attorney Joseph Kosky of the Eastern District of Virginia are prosecuting the case.
Topic(s):Public CorruptionComponent(s):Criminal DivisionCriminal - Human Rights and Special Prosecution SectionCriminal - Public Integrity SectionUSAO - Virginia, EasternPress Release Number:21-381
Updated April 27, 2021