https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/colorado-man-sentenced-sexual-exploitation-children-guatemala
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Monday, April 26, 2021
Colorado Man Sentenced for Sexual Exploitation of Children in Guatemala
A Colorado man was sentenced today to 60 years in prison for production, transportation, and possession of child pornography.
Alvaro Castillo, 64, of Englewood, was convicted by a federal jury of three counts of production of child pornography; one count of attempted production of child pornography; one count of transportation of child pornography; and one count of possession of child pornography on Nov.
18, 2020.
According to trial evidence, in May 2018, Castillo traveled to his native country of Guatemala, and videorecorded himself sexually abusing a 13-year-old victim who was sleeping.
Evidence from that video identified Castillo as the abuser.
In addition to this videorecording, Castillo also possessed and transported additional images of child sexual abuse.
Law enforcement agents discovered the child pornography evidence during an October 2019 search of a recreational vehicle that he was driving at the USA  Mexico border.
Alvaro Castillo recorded himself committing unspeakable crimes against a defenseless child in a foreign country, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Nicholas L.
McQuaid of the Justice Departments Criminal Division.
The department is committed to identifying and prosecuting transnational offenders like Alvaro Castillo, and todays sentence will protect children in Guatemala and the United States from such predatory behavior.

Child victimization is a crime that knows no borders and HSI, as a global investigative agency, is committed to working with its domestic and international partners to stop these criminals from exploiting innocent children anywhere in the world, said Special Agent in Charge Erik P.
Breitzke for Homeland Security Investigations (HSI) El Paso.
We may not be able to undo the damage done, but sentences such as todays serve to hold child predators accountable and, we hope, help the victims heal.

In addition to the prison sentence, Castillo was ordered to serve a lifetime of supervised release and pay $33,586.89 in restitution.
HSI investigated the case with assistance from USA Customs and Border Protection.
Trial Attorney Trial Attorney Austin M.
Berry of the Criminal Divisions Child Exploitation and Obscenity Section (CEOS) and Assistant USA Attorney John Cannizzaro of the Western District of Texas are prosecuting the case.
This case was brought as part of Project Safe Childhood, a nationwide initiative to combat the growing epidemic of child sexual exploitation and abuse, launched in May 2006 by the Department of Justice.
Led by USA Attorneys Offices and CEOS, Project Safe Childhood marshals federal, state and local resources to better locate, apprehend and prosecute individuals who exploit children via the Internet, as well as to identify and rescue victims.
For more information about Project Safe Childhood, please visit http://www.
justice.gov/psc.
Topic(s):Project Safe ChildhoodComponent(s):Criminal DivisionCriminal - Child Exploitation and Obscenity SectionUSAO - Texas, WesternPress Release Number:21-373
Updated April 26, 2021