https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/justice-department-s-hate-crimes-enforcement-and-prevention-initiative-announces-newly
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, April 23, 2021
The Justice Departments Hate Crimes Enforcement and Prevention Initiative Announces Newly Translated Online Hate Crimes Resources
Today, marking the 40th Anniversary of National Crime Victims Rights Week (NCVRW), the Justice Departments Hate Crimes Enforcement and Prevention Initiative announced newly translated hate crimes resources in eight languages for the departments hate crimes website, www.
justice.gov/hatecrimes.
The website, which has been visited by over one million users since launching in 2018, now features new pages in Simplified Chinese, Traditional Chinese, Vietnamese, Korean, Tagalog, Arabic, and Japanese.
These pages include basic information about hate crimes, in-language resources, and instructions on reporting hate crimes to the FBI Tip Line with assistance from qualified interpreters.
Experience has proven that communicating in-language with people who are limited English proficient (LEP) is a crucial step to combating hate crimes nationally.
There has been an alarming rise in violence, harassment, and discrimination directed at the Asian-American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) community.
The new in-language pages can help victims and witnesses who are limited English proficient recognize and report hate crimes.
The website also has a new English language page with links to resources and news addressing hate targeting AAPI communities.
www.
justice.gov/hatecrimes/addressing-hate-crimes-against-AAPI.
The page includes a link to the FBIs Hate Crime Threat Guide.
The Threat Guide, a single-page chart describing types of hate crime threats (physical, verbal, phoned, electronic, written, or visual), lists recommended responses, including steps to preserve evidence.
The Guide is now available in Simplified and Traditional Chinese.
The Spanish language hate crimes site, www.
justice,gov/hatecrimes-espanol, also has expanded content, such as up-to-date hate crimes statistics, case examples, Spanish language resources, and a map of which states have hate crimes laws.
Supportingvictims ofhatecrimesis an essential part of thedepartments mission, and an important measure of our success, said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Pamela Karlan of the Justice Departments Civil Rights Division.
PeoplewithlimitedEnglish proficiency, and the advocates and community leaders who work with them, face additionalbarriers to seekingjustice.
We hope that these newin-languageresourceshelp thedepartment and our partners more effectively support victims of hate crimes, build trust, and engage communities.
Wewill continue to expand the number of languages onwww.
justice.gov/hatecrimes.

Todays announcements are just one part of the departments work to combat discrimination and violence through capacity building, training, support and outreach to our partners, including those that work with AAPI communities or members of the public who have limited English proficiency.
On Jan.
26, President Biden issued the Presidential Memorandum Condemning and Combating Racism, Xenophobia, and Intolerance Against Asian-Americans and Pacific Islanders in the United States, which mandates that the Attorney General shall:
explore opportunities to support, consistent with applicable law, the efforts of state and local agencies, as well as AAPI communities and community-based organizations, to prevent discrimination, bullying, harassment, and hate crimes against AAPI individuals, and
expand collection of data and public reporting regarding hate incidents against such individuals.
For more information on the Justice Departments work to combat and prevent hate crimes, visitwww.
justice.gov/hatecrimes, a one-stop portal with links to hate crimes resources for law enforcement, media, researchers, victims, advocacy groups, and other organizations and individuals.
For more information about ensuring language access and the concentration of, and languages spoken by, persons with limited English proficiency in a county, state, or judicial district, visit www.
lep.gov/
      .
             .
              : www.
justice.gov/hatecrimes/translated-get-help-arabic (Arabic)
 www.
justice.gov/hatecrimes/translated-get-help-simplified-chinese (Simplified Chinese)
www.
justice.gov/hatecrimes/translated-get-help-traditional-chinese (Traditional Chinese)
www.
justice.gov/hatecrimes/translated-get-help-japanese (Japanese)
    .
    ,          .
               : www.
justice.gov/hatecrimes/translated-get-help-korean (Korean)
Pambansang Linggo ng mga Karapatan ng Biktima ng Krimen ngayon.
Ang linggo ito, at sa buong taon, nais naming iparating sa mga biktima ng poot na hindi sila nag-iisa.
Para malaman pa ang tungkol sa mga krimen ng poot at para malaman kung paano kayo hihingi ng tulong, bisitahin ang: www.
justice.gov/hatecrimes/translated-get-help-tagalog (Tagalog)
 n Tun l Quyn ca Nn nhn Ti phm Quc gia.
Tun ny, v trong sut c nm, chng ti mun cc nn nhn ca ti c th hn bit rng h khng n c.
 tm hiu thm v ti c th hn v tm hiu cch bn c th yu cu tr gip, vui lng truy cp: www.
justice.gov/hatecrimes/translated-get-help-vietnamese (Vietnamese)
Component(s):Civil Rights DivisionPress Release Number:21-367
Updated April 23, 2021