https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/us-government-seizes-oil-tanker-used-violate-us-and-un-sanctions-against-north-korea
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, April 23, 2021
USA Government Seizes Oil Tanker Used to Violate USA and U.
N.
Sanctions Against North Korea
Singaporean National Kwek Kee Seng Charged with Federal Crimes Related to Alleged Leadership Role in Scheme to use the M/T Courageous to Violate Sanctions
Note:A full copy of the complaint can be viewedhere.
WASHINGTON  A Singaporean national was charged today in New York with crimes related to his alleged leadership role in a scheme to use an oil tanker to violate USA and U.
N.
sanctions imposed against North Korea for facilitation of proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
The oil tanker, theM/T Courageouswas seized last month by Cambodian authorities and held pursuant to the court approval of todays USA seizure warrant.
According to court documents, Kwek Kee Seng, 61, of Singapore, and his co-conspirators engaged in an extensive scheme to evade USA and U.
N.
sanctions by using vessels under their control to covertly transport fuel to North Korea, providing a critical resource for the North Korean government and for DPRK-based companies.
One of those vessels wasM/T Courageous formerly known as theSea Prima which was purchased by Seng through front companies to further the scheme to evade sanctions and launder money.
The seizure of theCourageousis another step in sinking North Koreas efforts to circumvent sanctions on the high seas, said Assistant Attorney General John C.
Demers for the Justice Departments National Security Division.
The United States will continue to enforce sanctions on North Korea through civil forfeiture actions and criminal prosecutions to ensure that the North Korean government and the private entities that enable this regime by prioritizing personal profit over global security  are held accountable.

The FBI investigates violations of USA law wherever they may occur, even in the middle of an ocean, said Assistant Direct Alan E.
Kohler Jr.
of the FBIs Counterintelligence Division.
Those individuals who decide to violate sanctions imposed on North Korea should expect to encounter the full force of USA law enforcement.

As alleged, Kwek Kee Seng conspired to violate international sanctions by arranging illicit deliveries of petroleum products to North Korea, and used front companies and false documentation to send money through the USA financial system in furtherance of his support for that pariah state, said USA Attorney Audrey Strauss for the Southern District of New York.
As a result of his illegal activities, not only does Kwek face criminal charges, but his sanctions-evading ship, theCourageous, has been seized and will no longer enable North Koreas pattern of evading the global communitys prohibitions on support for that regime.
Thanks to the extraordinary cooperation between USA and Cambodian law enforcement authorities, theCourageousis out of service.
This Office has pioneered the deployment of the full array of criminal and civil enforcement tools to curb North Koreas deceptive and illicit activities, and todays actions send a message that anyone who supports the DPRKs sanctions-busting efforts stands to lose both their liberty and their property.

Pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (IEEPA) and the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act of 2016 (NKSPEA), the DPRK and individuals or entities that the Department of the Treasurys Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) has determined are involved in the facilitation of proliferation of weapons of mass destruction are prohibited from engaging in transactions with USA persons or using the USA financial system.
The United Nations Security Council has similarly imposed economic sanctions on North Korea, prohibiting among other things the conduct of ship-to-ship transfers with DPRK-flagged vessels and the provision of petroleum products to the DPRK.
For a four-month period between August and December 2019,M/T Courageousillicitly stopped transmitting location information, during which time satellite imagery shows thatM/T Courageousengaged in a ship-to-ship transfer of more than $1.5 million worth of oil to a North Korean ship, theSaebyol, which had been designated by OFAC and traveled to the North Korean port of Nampo.
Seng and his co-conspirators took additional steps to hide the scheme by (1) operating a series of shell companies, (2) lying to international shipping authorities aboutM/T Courageous dealings with North Korea, and (3) falsely identifyingM/T Courageousas another ship in order to evade detection.
In furtherance of the scheme, Seng and his co-conspirators arranged for a variety of payments, denominated in USA dollars, that were processed through USA-based correspondent accounts to purchase oil  including more than $1.5 million to purchase the oil that was transferred to theSaebyol, over $500,000 to buyM/T Courageous, and thousands more dollars to procure necessary services forM/T Courageousand another vessel, including registration fees, ship materials and salary payments for crewmembers.
Seng and his co-conspirators overseas sought to conceal these sanctions-evading transactions by, among other things, using front companies to disguise the nature of the transactions; disguising location information for vessels carrying illicit shipments; and conducting ship-to-ship fuel transfers on the open sea in an attempt to hide their counterparties, such as theSaebyol.
Seng is charged with conspiring to violate the IEEPA and to commit money laundering.
If convicted, each count carries a maximum term of imprisonment of 20 years.
A federal district court judge will determine any sentence after considering the USA Sentencing Guidelines and other statutory factors.
Seng remains at large and the United States looks forward to working with our foreign partners to bring him to justice.
Acting USA Attorney Strauss praised the outstanding investigative work of the FBI and its New York Field Office, Counterintelligence Division.
Strauss also thanked the FBI Legal Attach Office in Phnom Penh, Cambodia; the Justice Departments National Security Division, Counterintelligence and Export Control Section, Money Laundering and Asset Recovery Sections Program Operations Unit, Office of International Affairs; the USA Coast Guard; the Cambodian Ministry of Justice; and the Cambodian National Police, for their assistance.
Trial Attorney Matthew McKenzie of the National Security Divisions Counterintelligence and Export Control Section and Assistant USA Attorneys David W.
Denton Jr.
and Kimberly J.
Ravener are prosecuting the case.
A criminal complaint is merely an allegation and all defendants are presumed innocent until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law.
Topic(s):National SecurityComponent(s):Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)National Security Division (NSD)USAO - New York, SouthernPress Release Number:21-365
Updated April 30, 2021