https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/mathematics-professor-and-university-researcher-indicted-grant-fraud
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, April 21, 2021
Mathematics Professor and University Researcher Indicted for Grant Fraud
Prosecution Brought as Part of Justice Departments China Initiative
Note:A full copy of the indictment can be viewedhere.
WASHINGTON  Today, a federal grand jury in Carbondale, Ill.
returned an indictment charging a mathematics professor and researcher at Southern Illinois University  Carbondale (SIUC) with two counts of wire fraud and one count of making a false statement.
According to court documents, Mingqing Xiao, 59, of Makanda, Illinois, fraudulently obtained $151,099 in federal grant money from the National Science Foundation (NSF) by concealing support he was receiving from the Chinese government and a Chinese university.
Again, an American professor stands accused of enabling the Chinese governments efforts to corruptly benefit from USA research funding by lying about his obligations to, and support from, an arm of the Chinese government and a Chinese public university, said Assistant Attorney General John C.
Demers for the Justice Departments National Security Division (NSD).
Honesty and transparency about funding sources lie at the heart of the scientific research enterprise.
They enable USA agencies to distribute scarce grants for scientific research fairly and equitably.
And they allow other researchers to evaluate potential conflicts of interest and conflicts of commitment.
When researchers fall short of fulfilling these core academic values in ways that violate the law, the Department stand ready to investigate and prosecute.

Fraudulently obtaining USA taxpayer funding is a slap in the face to the vast majority of university researchers who do the right thing and abide by the rules, said Alan E.
Kohler, Jr.
, Assistant Director of the FBIs Counterintelligence Division.
To those individuals who choose to conceal affiliations with foreign universities or foreign governments while applying for USA taxpayer-funded grants, the message should be clear: the FBI and its partners are aggressively investigating allegations of grant fraud.

The FBI takes seriously its commitment to work with our partners in academia to protect USA research funded grants, said Special Agent in Charge Sean M.
Cox of the FBIs Springfield Field Office.
This investigation, like so many others, should serve as a reminder that failure to be truthful and transparent on an application for USA funded grants is a violation of the law.
In this case the applicant allegedly failed to disclose his affiliation with China.
Individuals who fail to disclose their affiliation with any foreign nation will be held accountable.

The charges in this case are very serious, said USA Attorney Steven D.
Weinhoeft for the Southern District of Illinois.
University grant fraud allows China to co-opt USA research and development at a fraction of the cost.
Prosecutions like this one play an important role, not just in protecting American investments in academic research from foreign exploitation, but also in combating the growing threat that China poses to our national security.
We will continue to work with our partners at NSD and the FBI on these important cases.

According to the indictment, Xiao has worked in SIUCs mathematics department since 2000, focusing his research on partial differential equations, control theory, optimization theory, dynamical systems, and computational science.
In that position, Xiao allegedly applied for and received NSF grant funds for a project set to run from 2019 to 2022 without informing NSF about another, overlapping grant he had already received from the Natural Science Foundation of Guangdong Province, China.
Xiao also allegedly failed to inform NSF that he was on the payroll of Shenzhen University, a public university in Guangdong Province, and that he had already committed to teaching and conducting research at Shenzhen University from 2018 to 2023.
The indictment further alleges that in March 2019, while his NSF grant proposal was still pending, Xiao submitted another grant proposal to the Natural Science Foundation of China.
According to the indictment, Xiao allegedly applied for the funds as an employee of Shenzhen University and did not disclose the new Chinese proposal to NSF.
Xiao is charged with falsely certifying to SIUC that his NSF grant proposal was true, complete, and accurate.
Before awarding the grant, NSF questioned Xiao about any current or pending funding from worldwide sources, including specifically whether he held any position outside of the United States or had obtained funding from non-USA funding sources.
The indictment accuses Xiao of falsely reporting to NSF that he had nothing else to disclose.
If convicted, Xiao faces up to 20 years in prison on each count of wire fraud and up to fiveyears in prison for making a false statement.
All three charges are also punishable by a fine of up to $250,000.
A federal district court judge will determine any sentence after considering the USA Sentencing Guidelines and other statutory factors.
The investigation was conducted by the FBI, the IRS, and the Department of Homeland Security.
Assistant USA Attorney Peter T.
Reed is prosecuting the case, with assistance from NSDs Counterintelligence & Export Section.
The prosecution is part of the Justice Departments ongoing China Initiative.
Led by the Departments National Security Division, the China Initiative is a broad, multi-faceted effort to counter Chinese national security threats and safeguard American intellectual property.
An indictment is merely an allegation and all defendants are presumed innocent until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law.
Topic(s):Counterintelligence and Export ControlNational SecurityComponent(s):Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)National Security Division (NSD)USAO - Illinois, SouthernPress Release Number:21-351
Updated April 22, 2021