https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/two-senior-managers-italy-charged-conspiracy-cheat-us-emissions-tests-and-defraud-us
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, April 20, 2021
Two Senior Managers in Italy Charged with Conspiracy to Cheat USA Emissions Tests and Defraud USA Consumers
An indictment was unsealed today in the Eastern District of Michigan charging two Italian nationals, along with a previously charged co-conspirator, for their alleged role in a conspiracy to defraud USA regulators and customers by making false and misleading statements about the emissions controls and fuel efficiency of more than 100,000 diesel vehicles sold in the United States by FCA US LLC.
According to court documents, Sergio Pasini, 43, of Ferrera, Italy, and Gianluca Sabbioni, 55, of Sala Bolognese, Italy, two senior diesel managers at Fiat Chrysler Automobiles Italy S.
p.
A.
(FCA Italy), a wholly owned subsidiary of Stellantis N.
V.
 along with a previously charged co-conspirator, Emanuele Palma, 42, of Bloomfield Hills, Michigan  were responsible for developing and calibrating the 3.0-liter diesel engine used in certain FCA diesel vehicles.
Their responsibilities included calibrating several software features in the vehicles emissions control systems to meet emissions standards for nitrogen oxides (NOx), a family of poisonous gases that are formed when diesel fuels are burned at high temperatures, while also achieving best-in-class fuel efficiency targets set by FCA US LLC.
The superseding indictment alleges that Palma, Pasini, Sabbioni, and their co-conspirators, purposely calibrated the emissions control functions to produce lower NOx emissions under conditions when the subject vehicles would be undergoing testing on the federal test procedures or driving cycles, and higher NOx emissions under conditions when the subject vehicles would be driven in the real world.
Palma, Pasini, Sabbioni, and their co-conspirators allegedly referred to the manner in which they manipulated one method of emissions control as cycle beating.
 As alleged, by calibrating the emissions control functions on the subject vehicles to produce lower NOx emissions while the vehicles were on the driving cycle, and higher NOx emissions when the vehicles were off the driving cycle, or off cycle, the three defendants purposely misled FCAs regulators by making it appear that the subject vehicles were producing less NOx emissions than they were, i.
e.
, in real world driving conditions.
Palma, Pasini, and Sabbioni also allegedly made and caused others to make false and misleading representations to FCAs regulators about the emissions control functions of the subject vehicles in order to ensure that FCA obtained regulatory approval to sell the subject vehicles in the United States.
The superseding indictment also alleges that Palma, Pasini, and Sabbioni employed cycle beating to achieve best-in-class fuel efficiency and make the subject vehicles more attractive to FCAs potential customers, i.
e.
, by increasing fuel economy and reducing the frequency of a required emissions control system service interval.
The superseding indictment alleges that the co-conspirators understood their cycle beating calibration would harm consumers who purchased the vehicle, leading them to acknowledge that there will always be the unlucky customer who will have the misfortune of using our loser cal[ibration].

Pasini and Sabbioni are each charged with one count of conspiracy to defraud the United States and to violate the Clean Air Act, one count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud, and six counts of violating the Clean Air Act.
If convicted, Pasini and Sabbioni each face up to five years in prison on the conspiracy count to defraud the United States and to violate the Clean Air Act, up to 20 years in prison on the conspiracy count to commit wire fraud, and up to two years in prison for each count of violating the Clean Air Act.
A federal district court judge will determine any sentence after considering the USA Sentencing Guidelines and other statutory factors.
Palma is charged with one count of conspiracy to defraud the United States and to violate the Clean Air Act, one count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud, six counts of violating the Clean Air Act, and two counts of making false statements to representatives of the FBI and the USA Environmental Protection Agencys Criminal Investigation Division (EPA-CID).
If convicted, Palma faces up to five years in prison on the conspiracy count to defraud the United States and to violate the Clean Air Act, up to 20 years in prison on the conspiracy count to commit wire fraud, up to two years in prison for each count of violating the Clean Air Act, and up to five years in prison for each count of making false statements.
A federal district court judge will determine any sentence after considering the USA Sentencing Guidelines and other statutory factors.
Acting Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Kevin O.
Driscoll of the Justice Departments Criminal Division; Acting USA Attorney Saima S.
Mohsin of the U.
S Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of Michigan; Acting Assistant Attorney General Jean E.
Williams of the Justice Departments Environment and Natural Resources Division (ENRD); Special Agent in Charge Timothy Waters of the FBIs Detroit Field Office; and Special Agent in Charge Lance Ehrig of the EPA-CIDs West-Central Region made the announcement.
Principal Assistant Chief Henry P.
Van Dyck and Trial Attorneys Kyle W.
Maurer and Jason M.
Covert of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section, ENRD Senior Trial Attorney Todd W.
Gleason, and Assistant USA Attorneys John K.
Neal and Timothy J.
Wyse for the Eastern District of Michigan are prosecuting the case.
An indictment is merely an allegation and all defendants are presumed innocent until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law.
Attachment(s): Download Superseding Indictment.
pdfComponent(s):Criminal DivisionEnvironment and Natural Resources DivisionPress Release Number:21-343
Updated April 20, 2021