https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/man-pleads-guilty-obstruction-official-proceeding-breaching-us-capitol-jan-6
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, June 2, 2021
Man Pleads Guilty to Obstruction of an Official Proceeding for Breaching USA Capitol on Jan.
6
Defendant Illegally Entered USA Capitol, Walked in the Senate Chamber, Took a Selfie and Stood with Other Individuals
WASHINGTON  A Florida man pleaded guilty today to crimes related to the breach of the USA Capitol on Jan.
6 which disrupted a joint session of the USA Congress in the process of ascertaining and counting the electoral votes related to the presidential election.
According to court documents, Paul Hodgkins, 38, of Tampa, Florida, entered the USA Capitol building at approximately 2:50 p.
m.
on Jan.
6.
Around 3 p.
m.
, Hodgkins entered the Senate chamber, walked among the desks, and then removed eye goggles.
He took a selfie-style photograph with his cell phone and walked down the Senate well where, a few feet away, several individuals were shouting, praying and cheering using a bullhorn.
Hodgkins walked toward the individuals and remained standing with them while they continued commanding the attention of others.
At approximately 3:15 p.
m.
, Hodgkins exited the Senate chamber and the USA Capitol Building.
Hodgkins pleaded guilty to one count of obstructing an official proceeding, which carries a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison, fine of $250,000 or twice the monetary gain or loss of the offense.
He is scheduled to be sentenced on July 19 at 10 a.
m.
A federal district court judge will determine any sentence after considering the USA Sentencing Guidelines and other statutory factors.
The Honorable Randolph D.
Moss accepted Hodgkins guilty plea.
The FBIs Washington Field Office investigated this case, with significant assistance provided by theFBI Tampa Field Office, the USACapitol Police, and the DC Metropolitan Police Department.
Anyone with tips can call 1-800-CALL-FBI (800-225-5324) or visit tips.
fbi.gov.
The charges contained in the complaint are allegations.
The defendants are presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law.
Topic(s):CounterterrorismNational SecurityComponent(s):Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)National Security Division (NSD)Press Release Number:21-513
Updated June 2, 2021