https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/former-chief-executive-officer-publicly-traded-petrochemical-company-pleads-guilty-foreign
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, April 15, 2021
Former Chief Executive Officer of Publicly Traded Petrochemical Company Pleads Guilty to Foreign Bribery and Securities Law Violations
A Brazilian national who previously served as a chief executive officer (CEO) of Braskem S.
A.
(Braskem), a publicly traded Brazilian petrochemical company, pleaded guilty today to conspiring to divert hundreds of millions of dollars from Braskem into a secret slush fund and to pay bribes to government officials, political parties, and others in Brazil to obtain and retain business.
According to court documents, between approximately 2002 and 2014, Jose Carlos Grubisich, 64, a citizen of Brazil  who served as the CEO and a member of the board of directors of Braskem as well as in various capacities for Braskems parent company, Odebrecht S.
A.
(Odebrecht)  engaged in a scheme to bribe Brazilian government officials in violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA).
As part of the scheme, Grubisich and his co-conspirators diverted approximately $250 million from Braskem into a secret slush fund, which Grubisich and others had generated through fraudulent contracts and offshore shell companies secretly controlled by Braskem.
Grubisich admitted that while CEO of Braskem, he agreed to pay bribes to Brazilian government officials to ensure Braskems retention of a contract for a significant petrochemical project from Petroleo Brasileiro S.
A.
(Petrobras), Brazils state-owned and state-controlled oil company.
Grubisich also admitted that, as Braskems CEO, he falsified Braskems books and records by falsely recording the payments to Braskems offshore shell companies as payments for legitimate services.
Grubisich also signed false Sarbanes-Oxley certifications submitted to the USA Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) that, among other things, attested that Braskems annual reports fairly and accurately represented Braskems financial condition, and that Grubisich, as Braskems principal officer, had disclosed all fraudulent conduct by Braskems management and other employees with control over Braskems financial reporting.
As CEO of a publicly traded company, Grubisich and other senior executives at Braskem engaged in a large-scale, sophisticated international bribery and fraud scheme and then lied to USA shareholders and authorities to conceal their criminal conduct, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Nicholas L.
McQuaid of the Justice Departments Criminal Division.
Todays guilty plea demonstrates the Departments commitment to holding individuals accountable for corrupt and fraudulent conduct, including those at the highest corporate echelons.

Grubisich abused his position of trust as CEO of Braskem to both facilitate and conceal the payment of millions of dollars in bribes so that Braskem could increase its profits and its senior executives  including Grubisich himself  could personally benefit, said Acting USA Attorney Mark J.
Lesko of the Eastern District of New York.
This office is committed to the prosecution of corrupt gatekeepers, including officers and directors of public companies, who, like Grubisich, use the United States financial system to commit crimes.

Grubisich pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to violate the anti-bribery provisions of the FCPA and one count of conspiracy to violate the books and records provision of the FCPA and to fail to accurately certify Braskems financial reports.
Grubisich has also agreed to pay approximately $2.2 million in forfeiture.
He is scheduled to be sentenced on Aug.
5, and faces a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison.
Any sentence will be determined after considering the USA Sentencing Guidelines and other statutory factors.
In December 2016, Braskem and Odebrecht each pleaded guilty in the Eastern District of New York to separate one-count criminal informations charging them with conspiracy to violate the anti-bribery provisions of the FCPA.
Braskem settled with the SEC in related proceedings on the same day.
The FBIs International Corruption squad in New York is investigating the case.
The Justice Departments Office of International Affairs also provided substantial assistance.
The department also expresses its appreciation for the assistance provided by the SECs Division of Enforcement, Ministrio Pblico Federal and the Departamento de Polcia Federal in Brazil, the Office of the Attorney General in Switzerland, the Swiss Federal Office of Justice, and the governments of Portugal, Andorra, United Kingdom, and Panama.
Assistant Chief Lorinda Laryea and Trial Attorney Leila Babaeva of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section and Assistant USA Attorneys Julia Nestor and Alixandra Smith of the Eastern District of New York are prosecuting the case, with Assistant USA Attorney Laura Mantell of the Eastern Districts Civil Division handling forfeiture matters.
The Fraud Section is responsible for investigating and prosecuting all FCPA matters.
Additional information about the Justice Departments FCPA enforcement efforts can be found at www.
justice.gov/criminal/fraud/fcpa.
Topic(s):Foreign CorruptionComponent(s):Criminal DivisionCriminal - Criminal Fraud SectionCriminal - Office of International AffairsFederal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)USAO - New York, EasternPress Release Number:21-333
Updated April 15, 2021