https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/justice-department-moves-intervene-disability-discrimination-suit-against-city-chicago
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, April 8, 2021
Justice Department Moves to Intervene in Disability Discrimination Suit Against City of Chicago Regarding Pedestrians with Visual Disabilities
The Justice Department today moved to intervene in a disability discrimination lawsuit that private plaintiffs with visual disabilities brought against the City of Chicago under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act (Section 504).
The departments proposed complaint alleges that the city fails to provide people who are blind, have low vision, or are deaf-blind with equal access to pedestrian signal information at intersections.
Pedestrian signal information, such as a flashing Walk/Dont Walk signal, indicates when it is safe to cross the street.
Accessible pedestrian signals (APSs) are devices that provide pedestrians with safe-crossing information in a non-visual format, such as through audible tones, speech messages, and vibrotactile surfaces.
Since at least 2006, Chicago has recognized the need to install APSs for pedestrians with visual disabilities.
Yet, while Chicago currently provides sighted pedestrians visual crossing signals at nearly 2,700 intersections, it has installed APSs at only 15 of those intersections.
The proposed suit alleges that the lack of APSs at over 99% of Chicagos signalized intersections subjects people who are blind, have low vision, or are deaf-blind to added risks and burdens not faced by sighted pedestrians, including fear of injury or death.
The ADA and Section 504 require that individuals with disabilities have equal access to public services, including access to pedestrian crossing information that is critical for safety and for full participation in community life, said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Pamela S.
Karlan of the Justice Departments Civil Rights Division.
Chicago has determined that safe-crossing information is necessary for sighted pedestrians to navigate throughout the city, and this suit seeks to ensure that the city provides the same benefit to people with visual disabilities.

The USA Attorneys Office is taking this action to ensure that Chicagoans with disabilities are provided equal access to city services, particularly those services whose purpose is public safety, said USA Attorney John R.
Lausch Jr.
for the Northern District of Illinois.
We are concerned about the serious lack of accessibility to safe intersection crossings for Chicagoans who are blind, have low vision, or are deaf-blind, and we are confident that our involvement in this important case will ultimately bring a meaningful resolution to the city and its millions of residents, daily commuters, and visitors.

The motion and complaint seeking intervention were jointly filed by the Disability Rights Section of the departments Civil Rights Division and the USA Attorneys Office for the Northern District of Illinois.
The case is being handled by Assistant USA Attorneys Patrick Johnson and Sarah J.
North, and Trial Attorney Matthew Faiella.
To read the motion to intervene, please click here: https://www.
ada.gov/acbmc/acbmc_motion.
html.
For more information on the Civil Rights Division, please visit www.
justice.gov/crt.
For more information on the ADA, please call the departments toll-free ADA Information Line at 800-514-0301 (TDD 800-514-0383) or visit www.
ada.gov.
Members of the public may report possible civil rights violations at https://civilrights.
justice.gov/report.
Topic(s):Civil RightsComponent(s):Civil Rights DivisionCivil Rights - Disability Rights SectionPress Release Number:21-312
Updated April 8, 2021