https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/reptile-dealer-arrested-lacey-act-and-firearms-charges
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, April 1, 2021
Reptile Dealer Arrested on Lacey Act and Firearms Charges
A South Carolina man was arrested on March 30 on Lacey Act and firearms charges.
A federal judge in the Middle District of Georgia, unsealed the indictment today.
Ashtyn Michael Rance, 35, of Dalzell, was charged by a federal grand jury in the Middle District of Georgia on March 9 for trafficking vipers and turtles, as well as illegally possessing two firearms.
USA Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) agents arrested Rance in Dalzell on a warrant to face the charges in the Middle District of Georgia.
The indictment alleges that in February 2018, Rance sold 16 spotted turtles and three eastern box turtles to a buyer in Florida.
He shipped the reptiles from Valdosta in a package falsely labeled as containing tropical fish and lizards.
The indictment also alleges that in May 2018, Rance sent a second package to Florida with a label stating that it contained harmless reptiles and ball pythons.
In reality, Rance had shipped 15 Gaboon vipers, which are venomous snakes.
Finally, the indictment alleges that on May 11, 2018, law enforcement authorities executed a search warrant at Rances Valdosta home, where they recovered a Bushmaster Carbine .
223 caliber rifle and a Mossberg 12-gauge shotgun.
It is a violation of federal law for a convicted felon to possess a firearm, and Rance has a prior felony conviction.
Rances reckless shipment of venomous snakes and illegal possession of firearms demonstrate the dangers of wildlife trafficking, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Jean E.
Williams of the Justice Departments Environment and Natural Resources Division (ENRD).
I applaud our federal and state law enforcement partners for keeping the public and delivery couriers safe.

Illegal wildlife trafficking can have devastating effects, and our office will prosecute individuals found in violation of the Lacey Act and other environmental protection laws, said Acting USA Attorney Peter D.
Leary of the USA Attorneys Office for the Middle District of Georgia.
I want to thank the USA Fish and Wildlife Service, ATF and Georgia DNR for their work investigating this case.

Wildlife trafficking is a serious crime that impacts species at home and abroad,saidSpecial Agent in ChargeStephen Clark for the USFWS Office of Law Enforcement.
I would like to thank the Justice Department,the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, and the Georgia and South Carolina Departments of Natural Resourcesfor their assistance with this case.
Together, we have stopped highly venomous snakes, and our nations own wildlife, from being smuggled.

Rance possessed and sold the reptiles in violation of Georgia laws.
The federal Lacey Act is the nations oldest wildlife trafficking statute and prohibits, among other things, transporting wildlife in interstate commerce if the wildlife was possessed illegally under state laws.
It also is a Lacey Act violation to falsely label a package containing wildlife.
The spotted turtle (Clemmys guttata) is a semi-aquatic turtle native to the eastern United States and Great Lakes region.
The eastern box turtle (Terrapene carolina carolina) is endemic to forested regions of the East Coast and Midwest.
Collectors prize both species in the domestic and foreign pet trade market.
The Gaboon viper (Bitis gabonica) is native to central Sub-Saharan Africa.
Its venom can cause shock, loss of consciousness or death in humans.
The maximum sentence under the Lacey Act and firearms charges are five and 10 years imprisonment, respectively, and a $250,000 fine for each charge.
The USFWS Office of Law Enforcement in Vero Beach, Florida; the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives; and the Georgia Department of Natural Resources conducted the investigation as part of Operation Middleman.
The operation focused on the trafficking of reptiles from the United States to China.
Trial Attorney Ryan Connors of ENRDs Environmental Crimes Section and Assistant USA Attorney Sonja Profit for the Middle District of Georgia are prosecuting the case.
An indictment is only an accusation, and the defendant is presumed innocent until proven otherwise before a jury at trial.
Topic(s):EnvironmentComponent(s):Environment and Natural Resources DivisionPress Release Number:21-299
Updated April 1, 2021