https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/justice-department-settles-discrimination-claim-against-virginia-recruitment-firm
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, March 31, 2021
Justice Department Settles Discrimination Claim Against Virginia Recruitment Firm
The Justice Department today announced that it reached a settlement with AdaequareInc.
(Adaequare), a company that recruits workers for other companies.
The settlement resolves the departments claim that Adaequare only considered applicants who were USA citizens and lawful permanent residents when filling a job for a client.
Based on its investigation, the department concluded that by only considering applicants who are USA citizens and permanent residents, Adaequare discriminated against refugees, asylees, and non-citizen nationals, based on their citizenship or immigration status.
Recruiters cannot illegally exclude applicants based on their citizenship or immigration status, saidPrincipal Deputy Assistant Attorney GeneralPamela S.
Karlan of the Justice Departments Civil Rights Division.
We applaud Adaequare for immediately taking steps to ensure that this discrimination does not happen again.

The departments investigation determined that when a client asked Adaequare to only recruit USA citizens or lawful permanent residents for a job, the company did not first check to make sure that the client was legally allowed to limit jobs to those statuses.
Instead, the Civil Rights Divisions Immigrant and Employee Rights Section (IER) determined, the company unlawfully screened out applicants based on their citizenship or immigration status.
The Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) protects USA citizens, non-citizen nationals, refugees, asylees, and recent lawful permanent residents from this type of discrimination.
The law has an exception if an employer or recruiter is required to limit jobs due to a law, regulation, executive order, or government contract.
The departments investigation determined that Adaequare did not have a legal justification for screening out these workers based on their citizenship or immigration status.
To help prevent future discrimination, Adaequare now asks clients for a legal justification if a client requests the company to limit candidates for a job to certain citizenship or immigration statuses.
Todays settlement agreement requires Adaequare to take several steps to ensure it follows the law in the future, including training its employees who recruit to fill positions.
The company also must pay a civil penalty.
As with its other settlements, IER will also monitor Adaequare to make sure the company is complying with the agreement.
IER is responsible for enforcing discrimination protections under the INA.
The law prohibitscitizenship status and national origin discriminationin hiring, firing, or recruitment or referral for a fee;unfair documentary practices; andretaliation and intimidation.
Learn more about citizenship status discrimination under the INA here.
Learn more about IERs work and how to get assistance through this briefvideo.
Applicants or employees who believe they were discriminated against based on their citizenship, immigration status, or national origin in hiring, firing, recruitment, or during the employment eligibility verification process (Form I-9 and E-Verify); or subjected to retaliation, may file a charge.
The public also may contact IERs worker hotline at 1-800-255-7688; call IERs employer hotline at 1-800-255-8155 (1-800-237-2515, TTY for hearing impaired); emailIER@usdoj.gov; sign up for a freewebinar; or visit IERsEnglishandSpanishwebsites.
Subscribe toGovDeliveryto receive updates from IER.
Attachment(s): Download Adaequare Settlement Agreement.
pdfTopic(s):Civil RightsImmigrationLabor & EmploymentComponent(s):Civil Rights DivisionCivil Rights - Immigrant and Employee Rights SectionPress Release Number:21-291
Updated March 31, 2021