https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/las-vegas-woman-arrested-and-charged-illegally-exporting-goods-iran
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, May 28, 2021
Las Vegas Woman Arrested and Charged with Illegally Exporting Goods to Iran
A Las Vegas woman has been indicted by a federal grand jury for conspiracy to export goods from the United States to Iran, in violation of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (IEEPA) and the Iranian Transactions and Sanctions Regulations.
According to the indictmentunsealed yesterday, Tina Chen, 47  aka Ya When Chen, Wen Tina Chen, Tina Dunbar, and Tina Dubner  is the owner of Top One Zone, LLC, a company exporting electronic and computer components that Chen operates from her residence.
As alleged, from about November 2015 to May 2019, Chen conspired with others to buy and export goods from companies in the United States, and then send those goods to individuals in Iran through companies in Hong Kong.
Chen concealed the identities of the end users, and she did not have a license from the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) of the USA Department of the Treasury.
Chen is charged with one count of conspiracy to unlawfully export goods to Iran.
Chen made her initial court appearance today before USA Magistrate Judge Nancy J.
Koppe, who scheduled a jury trial for July 26.
If convicted, Chen faces a statutory maximum penalty of 20 years imprisonment and a $1,000,000 fine.
A federal district court judge will determine any sentence after considering the USA Sentencing Guidelines and other statutory factors
Assistant Attorney General John C.
Demers for the Justice Departments National Security Division, Acting USA Attorney Christopher Chiou for the District of Nevada and Special Agent in Charge Aaron C.
Rouse of the FBI made the announcement.
The FBIs Las Vegas Field Office and the Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry and Security, Office of Export Enforcement are investigating the case.
Assistant USA Attorney Nicholas Dickinson of the District of Nevada and Trial Attorney Matthew J.
McKenzie of the National Security Divisions Counterintelligence and Export Control Section are prosecuting the case.
An indictment is merely an allegation and all defendants are presumed innocent until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law.
Topic(s):Counterintelligence and Export ControlNational SecurityComponent(s):Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)National Security Division (NSD)USAO - NevadaPress Release Number:21-500
Updated May 28, 2021