https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/indian-cancer-drug-manufacturer-pay-50-million-concealing-and-destroying-records-advance-fda
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, March 23, 2021
Indian Cancer Drug Manufacturer to Pay $50 Million for Concealing and Destroying Records in Advance of FDA Inspection
Indian drug manufacturer Fresenius Kabi Oncology Limited (FKOL) was sentenced to pay $50 million in fines and forfeiture after pleading guilty to concealing and destroying records prior to a 2013 USA Food and Drug Administration (FDA) plant inspection.
In a criminal information previously filed in federal court in the District of Nevada, the United States charged FKOL with violating the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act by failing to provide certain records to FDA investigators.
As part of a criminal resolution with the Department of Justice, FKOL agreed to plead guilty to the misdemeanor offense.
USA District Judge Jennifer A.
Dorsey accepted the companys guilty plea and sentenced FKOL to pay a criminal fine of $30 million, forfeit an additional $20 million, and implement a compliance and ethicsprogram designed to prevent, detect, and correct violations of USA law relating to FKOLs manufacture of cancer drugs intended for terminally ill patients.
By concealing and destroying drug manufacturing records, FKOL undermined FDAs regulatory authority and placed vulnerable consumers at risk, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Brian M.
Boynton of the Justice Departments Civil Division.
Todays sentence holds the company accountable for its past conduct and seeks to ensure it will fully comply with its obligations to the FDA going forward.

According to court documents, FKOL owned and operated a manufacturing plant in Kalyani, West Bengal, India, that manufactured active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) used in various cancer drug products distributed to the United States.
Prior to a January 2013 FDA inspection of the Kalyani facility, FKOL plant management directed employees to remove certain records from the premises and delete other records from computers that would have revealed FKOL was manufacturing drug ingredients in contravention of FDA requirements.
Kalyani plant employees removed computers, hardcopy documents, and other materials from the plant and deleted spreadsheets that contained evidence of the plants noncompliant practices.
Todays sentencing reflects our offices and the departments commitment to holding accountable companies that disregard FDA regulations, at the risk of consumers health and safety, said Acting USA Attorney Christopher Chiou for the District of Nevada.
Together with our agency partners, we will continue to ensure that drug manufacturers fully comply with their obligations to maintain the integrity of records and data.

FDA inspections of pharmaceutical manufacturing facilities help ensure the strength, quality and purity of our medicines, said Judy McMeekin, Pharm.
D.
, Associate Commissioner for Regulatory Affairs of the FDA.
Todays sentencing proves that we will continue to aggressively investigate and bring to justice those who attempt to subvert requirements that protect the public health.

The FDA Office of Criminal Investigations, Los Angeles Field Office, investigated the case.
The Central Bureau of Investigation in India provided invaluable assistance to USA authorities in the investigation of this matter.
The Justice Departments Office of International Affairs provided investigative assistance.
This case was prosecuted by Assistant Director Clint Narver and Trial Attorney Natalie Sanders of the Civil Divisions Consumer Protection Branch, with assistance from Assistant USA Attorney Nicholas D.
Dickinson of the USA Attorneys Office for the District of Nevada.
Topic(s):Consumer ProtectionComponent(s):Civil DivisionPress Release Number:21-260
Updated March 23, 2021