https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/former-ecuadorian-government-official-sentenced-prison-role-bribery-and-money-laundering
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, March 23, 2021
Former Ecuadorian Government Official Sentenced to Prison for Role in Bribery and Money Laundering Scheme
An Ecuadorian and Italian national was sentenced today to 51 months in prison for his role in a scheme to launder bribes paid to him in exchange for helping three U.
K.
reinsurance companies obtain and retain reinsurance business from Ecuadors public surety company.
Juan Ribas Domenech, 52, pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to commit money laundering on Sept.
16, 2020.
According to court documents, between 2013 and 2017, Ribas was the chairman of Seguros Sucre, Ecuadors state-owned and -controlled surety company and an advisor to the then-president of Ecuador.
In those capacities, Ribas had authority over the awarding of Seguros Sucre business.
During that time, Ribas accepted approximately $5,036,465 in bribes from his co-conspirators in exchange for using his official position to allow three U.
K.
-based reinsurance brokers to obtain and retain contracts with Seguros Sucre.
These bribe payments were paid through various intermediaries, including two reinsurance introducer companies.
A portion of the bribes were laundered through the United States.
Acting Assistant Attorney General Nicholas L.
McQuaid of the Justice Departments Criminal Division; Special Agent in Charge Kelly R.
Jackson of the IRS-Criminal Investigation (IRS-CI) Washington, D.
C.
Field Office; Special Agent in Charge Raymond Villanueva of USA Immigration and Customs Enforcements Homeland Security Investigations (HSI) Washington, D.
C.
Field Office; and Special Agent in Charge George L.
Piro of the FBIs Miami Field Office made the announcement.
IRS-CIs and HSIs Washington, D.
C.
offices, jointly under the auspices of the Global Illicit Financial Team, and the FBIs Miami International Corruption Squad investigated the case.
Trial Attorneys Katherine Raut, LaNese Clarke, and Alexander Kramer of the Justice Departments Fraud Section prosecuted the case.
The Fraud Section is responsible for investigating and prosecuting all Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) matters.
Additional information about the Justice Departments FCPA enforcement efforts can be found at www.
justice.gov/criminal/fraud/fcpa.
Topic(s):Financial FraudForeign CorruptionComponent(s):Criminal DivisionCriminal - Criminal Fraud SectionPress Release Number:21-259
Updated March 23, 2021