https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/florida-man-charged-federal-hate-crime
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, March 18, 2021
Florida Man Charged with Federal Hate Crime
A Florida man was charged with federal hate crime in Ocala for setting fire to a church.
Steven Shields, 24, of Dunnellon, was charged with setting fire to and damaging the Queen of Peace Catholic Church in Ocala by a federal grand jury in Orlando, who returned an indictment against him.
According to the indictment, Shields intentionally set fire to the Queen of Peace Catholic Church on July 11, 2020.
The indictment alleges that he was motivated to set this fire due to the religious character of the church.
Shields is charged with one count of intentional damage to religious property, a hate crime charge that falls under the Church Arson Prevention Act, and one count of using fire to commit a felony.
If convicted, Shields faces a maximum term of 20 years imprisonment for intentionally damaging religious property.
Shields faces an additional mandatory minimum of 10 years for using fire to commit a felony.
He also faces up to three years of supervised release, a $250,000 fine and restitution.
The FBI, theBureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF), the Florida State Fire Marshal, the Florida Bureau of Fire and Arson Explosives Investigations, the Marion County Sheriffs Office, the Marion County Fire and Rescue Department and the Ocala Police Department conducted the investigation.
Assistant USA Attorney Robert E.
Bodnar Jr.
of the Middle District of Florida and Trial Attorney Maura White of the Justice Departments Civil Rights Division are prosecuting the case.
An indictment is merely an accusation and Shields is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt.
For more information and resources about the departments work to combat hate crimes, visitwww.
justice.gov/hatecrimes.
Topic(s):Civil RightsHate CrimesComponent(s):Civil Rights DivisionPress Release Number:21-245
Updated March 18, 2021