https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/joint-statement-departments-justice-and-homeland-security-assessing-impact-foreign
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, March 16, 2021
Joint Statement from the Departments of Justice and Homeland Security Assessing the Impact of Foreign Interference During the 2020 USA Elections
No Evidence Found that a Foreign Government Manipulated Any Election Results
Note: The joint report can be viewed here.
WASHINGTON  The Department of Justice (DOJ) and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), including the FBI and the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA), released today key findings and recommendations from a joint report to the President issued last month on the impact of foreign governments and their agents on the security and integrity of the 2020 USA federal elections.
The Departments investigated multiple public claims that one or more foreign governments owned, directedor controlled election infrastructure used in the 2020 federal elections; implemented a scheme to manipulate election infrastructure; or tallied, changed or otherwise manipulated vote counts.
The Departments found that those claims were not credible.
These conclusions are part of a classified report to the President prepared by DOJ and DHS pursuant to section 1(b) of Executive Order 13848, Imposing Certain Sanctions in the Event of Foreign Influence in a United States Election (the EO), issued on Sept.
12, 2018.
Although the 1(b) report notes that Russian, Chinese, and Iranian government-affiliated actors materially impacted the security of certain networks during the 2020 federal elections, the Departments found no evidence that any foreign government-affiliated actor manipulated election results or otherwise compromised the integrity of the 2020 federal elections.
The 1(b) report relied on a classified assessment  prepared by the Office of the Director of National Intelligence (ODNI), pursuant to section 1(a) of the EO, about any information indicating that a foreign government acted with the intent or purpose of interfering in the 2020 USA federal elections.
Whereas the 1(a) report discusses efforts to influence public perceptions and opinion, the scope of the 1(b) report only includes efforts to compromise the security or integrity of election infrastructure or infrastructure pertaining to political organizations, candidatesor campaigns used in the 2020 USA federal elections.
The 1(b) report does not discuss efforts to sway voters or influence opinion.
During the 2020 election cycle, federal, state, local, tribal, territorial, non-governmental and private sector partners nationwide worked together in unprecedented ways to combat foreign interference efforts and support election officials, political organizations, campaignsand candidates in safeguarding their infrastructure.
The Departments remain committed to continuously strengthening the nations cybersecurity, critical infrastructure, supply chain risk management, public-private partnerships and public messaging to enhance the resiliency of our democratic institutions.
Attachment(s): Download key_findings_and_recommendations_from_the_joint_report_of_doj_and_dhs.
pdfTopic(s):National SecurityComponent(s):Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)National Security Division (NSD)Press Release Number:21-229
Updated March 16, 2021