https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/south-korean-national-pleads-guilty-scheme-defraud-us-department-defense
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, March 11, 2021
South Korean National Pleads Guilty to Scheme to Defraud USA Department of Defense
A South Korean national pleaded guilty today to participating in a scheme to defraud the USA Department of Defense.
According to court documents filed in the USA District Court in Columbus, Ohio, Hyun Dong Jo of the Republic of Korea was the designated manager under a Defense Logistics Agency contract to provide hazardous waste removal, testing, disposal, and related services to USA military installations in South Korea.
In that position, Jo participated in a scheme to falsify laboratory reports submitted under this hazardous waste contract.
From at least as early as February 2015 until at least June 2018, Jo submitted hundreds of falsified or materially altered laboratory reports, misrepresenting to USA military officials that laboratory testing and analysis had been performed on samples taken from USA military installations located in South Korea, when, in many cases, no such testing was performed.
As part of the scheme, Jo emailed the forged laboratory reports and invoices seeking payment for those reports to the Department of Defense, causing the Defense Financial Accounting Service to wire more than $280,000 in payments.
This charge reflects the Antitrust Divisions commitment to protecting taxpayer dollars spent overseas, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Richard Powers of the Department of Justice Antitrust Division.
Individuals who cheat the USA military in the performance of contracts will be held accountable.
We hope this guilty plea will serve as a deterrent for other contractors who contemplate obtaining illicit gains through engaging in fraud while providing services for the USA military domestically or abroad.

The defendant forged lab results and falsely reported them to the Department of Defense, said Acting USA Attorney Vipal J.
Patel for the Southern District of Ohio.
Not only is this unsafe for the USA Forces installations in Korea where hazardous waste was not actually tested, but it also defrauded the Department of Defense out of $280,000.
This office takes Jos conduct seriously and will continue to hold accountable anyone who attempts to defraud the government in this way.

Taking advantage of the DoD contracting system for ones own enrichment is a clear violation of the law, said Director Frank Robey of the USA Criminal Investigation Commands Major Procurement Fraud Unit.
Our agents and our law enforcement partners will steadfastly pursue this type of scheme and all fraud that erodes the rule of law and the trust between the DoD and the contracting community.

This case should serve as a cautionary tale for those who seek enrichment by way of deceit, said Special Agent-in-Charge Stanley A.
Newell of the Transnational Operations Field Office for the Defense Criminal Investigative Service (DCIS).
Anyone who attempts to defraud the Department of Defense with bogus and doctored invoices will be held to account.
The special agents of the DCIS along with our investigative partners from the USA Armys Criminal Investigative Command, are dedicated to protecting the integrity of USA military procurements around the globe; and ensuring that American taxpayers get what they pay for.

Jo pleaded guilty to one count of wire fraud and faces a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison and a maximum fine of $250,000.
The fine may be increased to twice the gain derived from the crime or twice the loss suffered by the victims of the crime, if that amount is greater than the statutory maximum fine.
A federal district court judge will determine any sentence after considering the USA Sentencing Guidelines and other statutory factors.
The Defense Criminal Investigative Service, USA Army Criminal Investigation Command, and Defense Logistics Agencys Office of Inspector General are investigating the case.
The Justice Departments Antitrust Division Washington Criminal II Section is prosecuting the case.
Special thanks are extended to Deputy Criminal Chief Brenda Shoemaker of the USA Attorneys Office for the Southern District of Ohio.
Anyone with information in connection with this investigation or other schemes affecting the USA militarys procurement process should call the Antitrust Divisions Washington Criminal II Section at 202-598-4000 or the Antitrust Divisions Citizen Complaint Center at 1-888-647-3258 or http://www.
justice.gov/atr/contact/newcase.
html.
Attachment(s): Download Jo Criminal Information.
pdfTopic(s):AntitrustComponent(s):Antitrust DivisionUSAO - Ohio, SouthernPress Release Number:21-220
Updated March 11, 2021