https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/white-supremacists-plead-guilty-violent-crime-aid-racketeering
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, March 4, 2021
White Supremacists Plead Guilty to Violent Crime in Aid of Racketeering
Two members of the Aryan Circle (AC) pleaded guilty this week to their roles in a violent assault of a man in October 2016.
Michael Martin, aka Aryan Prodigy, aka AP, 38, of Austin, Texas, and Bobby Dayle Boney, 50, of Sulphur Springs, Texas, each pleaded guilty to assault resulting in serious bodily injury in aid of racketeering.
Martin and Boney committed the assault as part of their membership in the AC, a gang that operates in Texas and other states throughout the country.
This case is part of a larger investigation into the AC, Operation Noble Virtue, that has targeted AC leadership and resulted in prosecutions and convictions in six different jurisdictions to date.
According to information presented in court and contained in court filings, the AC is a violent, white supremacist organization that originated in the Texas Department of Corrections and operates in federal prisons across the country, as well as outside prisons in states including Texas, Arkansas, Louisiana, and Missouri.
The AC enforces its rules and promotes discipline among its members, prospects, and associates through murder, attempted murder, assault, and threats.
Members, and oftentimes associates, are required to follow the orders of higher-ranking members without question.
Martin and Boney both joined the AC in the early 2000s and have gang tattoos indicating their affiliation.
Both served in leadership roles within the gang.
For a period of time, Martin served as an upper board member, which meant that he was one of the five highest-ranking leaders in the gang.
Also, for a period of time, Boney held the leadership rank of vice president, which meant that he gave orders to other AC members and disciplined members who were not following the gangs directives, among other things.
Prior to October 2016, AC members learned that another member wanted to switch his gang affiliation, or patch over, from the AC to a different gang.
Martin ordered AC members to attack the former member in order to X him, or remove him from the gang, because it violated the ACs rules to join another organization.
AC members, including Martin and Boney, held a church, or meeting, at an AC members home in the Tyler, Texas, area where they planned the logistics of the assault.
On Oct.
2, 2016, Martin, Boney, and other AC members met at a park near Tyler to carry out the assault.
On Martins order, Boney and another AC member violently beat the victim, including kicking the victim in the head while he was on the ground.
This attack resulted in the victim seeking medical care.
Martin and Boney will be sentenced at a date to be determined.
Acting Assistant Attorney General Nicholas L.
McQuaid of the Justice Departments Criminal Division and Acting USA Attorney Nicholas J.
Ganjei for the Eastern District of Texas made the announcement.
This case is part of a larger investigation into the Aryan Circle by an Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force (OCDETF) consisting of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives; Drug Enforcement Administration; Federal Bureau of Prisons; Texas Department of Public Safety; Houston Police Department-Gang Division; Montgomery County (TX) Precinct One Constables Office; USA Immigration and Customs Enforcements Homeland Security Investigations; Texas Department of Criminal Justice; New Jersey Department of Corrections-Special Investigations Division; Indiana State Police; Fort Smith (AR) Police Department; Arkansas Department of Corrections; Arnold (MO) Police Department; Jefferson County (MO) Sheriffs Department; St.
Louis Metropolitan Police Department; St.
Louis County (MO) Police Department; Indiana Department of Corrections; Carrollton (TX) Police Department; Montgomery County (TX) Sheriffs Office; Travis County (TX) Sheriffs Office; Tarrant County (TX) Sheriffs Office; Evangeline Parish (LA) Sheriffs Office; Smith County (TX) Sheriffs Office; McCurtain County (OK) Sheriffs Office; Montgomery County (TX) District Attorneys Office; Liberty County (TX) District Attorneys Office; Harris County (TX) District Attorneys Office; Mercer County (NJ) District Attorneys Office; Evangeline Parish (LA) District Attorneys Office; and the Sebastian County (AR) District Attorneys Office.
Trial Attorney Bethany Lipman of the Criminal Divisions Organized Crime and Gang Section and Assistant USA Attorney Christopher Rapp of the Eastern District of Texas are prosecuting the case.
Topic(s):Violent CrimeComponent(s):Criminal DivisionCriminal - Organized Crime and Gang SectionUSAO - Texas, EasternPress Release Number:21-203
Updated March 5, 2021