https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/cryptocurrency-fraudster-pleads-guilty-securities-fraud-and-money-laundering-charges-multi
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, March 4, 2021
Cryptocurrency Fraudster Pleads Guilty to Securities Fraud and Money Laundering Charges in Multi-Million Dollar Investment Scheme
A citizen of Sweden pleaded guiltyto securities fraud, wire fraud, and money laundering charges that defrauded more than 3,500 victims of more than $16 million.
Roger Nils-Jonas Karlsson, 47, and his company, Eastern Metal Securities (EMS), was charged in a criminal complaint filed March 4, 2019, with crimes involving a scheme to defraud victims of more than $16 million.
Karlsson, also known by several aliases including Steve Heyden, Euclid Deodoris, Joshua Millard, Lars Georgsson, Paramon Larasoft, and Kenth Westerberg, was arrested on June 17, 2019, in Thailand and was extradited to the United States to face the charges.
A federal grand jury indicted Karlsson and EMS on July 25, 2019.
Karlsson pleaded guilty to all the charges pending against him.
EMS has ceased to exist.
The indictment and a factual basis filed by the government describe a long-running scheme by which Karlsson and EMS used a website to commit wire fraud against thousands of victims.
Specifically, the indictment explains that from Nov.
27, 2012, through June 19, 2019, Karlsson and EMS used www.
easternmetalsecurities.
com to make fraudulent representations and convince victims to send funds using a virtual currency exchange.
During the same period, Karlsson and EMS used deceptive devices and contrivances to sell securities and then tried to conceal the proceeds of the wire fraud and securities fraud.
During theproceedings, Karlsson admitted that he used the website to invite potential investors to purchase shares of the plan for less than $100 per share, promising an eventual payout of 1.15 kilograms of gold per share, an amount of gold which as of Jan.
2, 2019, was worth more than $45,000.
Karlsson advised investors that, in the unlikely event that the gold payout did not happen, he guaranteed to them 97% of the amount they invested.
Karlsson admitted he had no way to pay off the investors.
Instead, the funds provided by victims were transferred to Karlssons personal bank accounts and he then used proceeds to purchase expensive homes and a resort in Thailand.
As the government has alleged, Karlsson also used a second website, www.
hci25.
com, to make multiple false communications to potential investors.
Karlsson brought the investors in HCI25 together with the investors in thePre Funded Reversed Pension Plan (PFRPP) and posted multiple communications to delay the moment investors would realize there would be no payout.
For example, on one occasion, Karlsson explained that a payout had not occurred because releasing so much money all at once could cause a negative effect on financial systems throughout the world.
Karlsson also falsely represented that EMS was working with the USA Securities and Exchange Commission to prepare the way for a payout.
Karlsson directed his victims to make investments using virtual currencies, such as Bitcoin.
Karlsson admitted he defrauded no less than 3,575 victims of more than $16 million.
Karlsson faces a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison and a maximum $250,000 fine for the wire fraud and securities fraud charges, and 20 years in prison and a $500,000 maximum fine for the money laundering charge.
In addition, the court also may order an additional term of supervised release, fines or other assessments, and restitution, if appropriate.
However, any sentence following conviction would be imposed by the court only after consideration of the USA Sentencing Guidelines and the federal statute governing the imposition of a sentence.
Acting Assistant Attorney General Nicholas L.
McQuaid of the Justice Departments Criminal Division; Acting USA Attorney Stephanie Hinds of the Northern District of California; and Special Agent in Charge Kelly R.
Jackson of the IRS Criminal Investigation (IRS-CI) Washington, D.
C.
Field Office made the announcement.
Trial Attorney Catherine Alden Pelker of the Criminal Divisions Computer Crime and Intellectual Property Section and Assistant USA Attorney William Frentzen are prosecuting this case.
Assistant USA Attorney Karen Beausey of the Asset Forfeiture Unit of the USA Attorneys Office is prosecuting the forfeiture proceedings.
IRS-CI Washington, D.
C.
Cyber Crimes Unit investigated the case.
The Justice Departments Office of International Affairs, the FBI Legal Attach Office in Thailand, the IRS-CI Attach Office in Hong Kong and the Royal Thai Police Crime Suppression Division provided significant assistance.
Topic(s):Cyber CrimeFinancial FraudComponent(s):Criminal DivisionCriminal - Computer Crime and Intellectual Property SectionCriminal - Office of International AffairsUSAO - California, NorthernPress Release Number:21-199
Updated March 4, 2021