https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/businessman-indicted-not-reporting-foreign-bank-accounts-and-filing-false-documents-irs
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, March 3, 2021
Businessman Indicted for Not Reporting Foreign Bank Accounts and Filing False Documents with the IRS
A federal grand jury in Alexandria, Virginia, returned an indictment on March 3, 2021, charging a Virginia man with failing to file Reports of Foreign Bank and Financial Accounts (FBARs) and filing false documents with the IRS.
According to the indictment, Azizur Rahman of Herndon,had a financial interest in and signature authority over more than 20 foreign financial accounts, including accounts held in Switzerland, the United Kingdom, the Republic of Singapore, and Bangladesh.
From 2010 through 2016, Rahman allegedly did not disclose his interest in all of his financial accounts on annual FBARs, as required by law.
Rahman also allegedly filed false individual tax returns for the tax years 2010 through 2016 that did not report to the IRS all of his foreign bank accounts and income.
Rahman is also charged with filing a false Streamlined Submission in conjunction with the IRS Streamlined Domestic Offshore Procedures.
Those procedures allowed eligible taxpayers residing within the United States, who failed to report gross income from foreign financial accounts on prior tax returns, failed to pay taxes on that gross income, or who failed to submit an FBAR disclosing foreign financial accounts, to voluntarily disclose their conduct to the IRS and to pay a reduced penalty if their conduct was non-willful.
The indictment alleges that Rahmans Streamlined Submission did not truthfully disclose all the foreign bank accounts in which he had an interest, and falsely claimed that his failure to report all income, pay all tax, and submit all required information returns, such as FBARs, was non-willful.
If convicted, Rahman faces a maximum sentence of three years in prison for each of the counts related to filing false tax documents.
Rahman also faces a maximum sentence of five years in prison for each count relating to his failure to file an FBAR or filing a false FBAR.
Acting Deputy Assistant Attorney General Stuart M.
Goldberg of the Justice Departments Tax Division, Acting USA Attorney Raj Parekh for the Eastern District of Virginia, and Special Agent in Charge Kelly R.
Jackson of IRS-Criminal Investigation made the announcement.
IRS-Criminal Investigation conducted the investigation, and Assistant USA Attorney Jamar Walker and Trial Attorneys Sean Beaty and Brian Flanagan of the Tax Division are prosecuting the case.
Additional information about the Tax Division and its enforcement efforts may be found on the divisions website.
An indictment is merely an allegation and all defendants are presumed innocent until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law.
Topic(s):TaxComponent(s):Tax DivisionUSAO - Virginia, EasternPress Release Number:21-198
Updated March 3, 2021