https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/two-men-charged-ecuadorian-bribery-and-money-laundering-scheme
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, March 2, 2021
Two Men Charged in Ecuadorian Bribery and Money Laundering Scheme
Criminal complaints have been unsealed charging two Ecuadorian citizens for their alleged roles in a bribery and money laundering scheme involving Ecuadors public police pension fund (ISSPOL).
John Luzuriaga Aguinaga, 52, and Jorge Cherrez Mio, 46, were each charged with one count of conspiracy to commit money laundering in complaints filed in the Southern District of Florida on Feb.
10 and Feb.
19, respectively.
Luzuriaga was arrested Feb.
26 and had his initial appearance Monday.
An arrest warrant has been issued for Cherrez who is believed to be in Mexico.
As alleged in the complaints, between approximately 2014 and 2020, Cherrez, an investment advisor, paid more than $2.6 million in bribes to ISSPOL officials, including at least approximately $1,397,066 to Luzuriaga, ISSPOLs Risk Director and a member of ISSPOLs Investment Committee, in order to obtain and retain investment business from ISSPOL.
Cherrez allegedly obtained approximately $65 million in profits from one aspect of the scheme.
According to the complaint, Cherrez received payments from the ISSPOL investment business in an account in the United States, used Florida-based companies and bank accounts to pay the bribes, and took acts in furtherance of the bribery scheme while in the Southern District of Florida.
Further, to conceal and promote the bribery scheme, Cherrez and Luzuriaga allegedly laundered the corrupt proceeds through Florida-based companies and bank accounts, including numerous USA investment fund companies incorporated in Florida with Cherrez as an officer or director.
Acting Assistant Attorney General Nicholas L.
McQuaid of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, Special Agent in Charge Kelly Jackson of the IRS-Criminal Investigations (IRS-CI) Washington, D.
C.
office, and Special Agent in Charge Anthony Salisbury of USA Immigration and Customs Enforcements Homeland Security Investigations (HSI) Miami office made the announcement.
This case is being investigated by HSI and IRS-CI, jointly under the auspices of the Global Illicit Financial Team.
Trial Attorneys Katherine Raut and Alexander Kramer of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section are prosecuting the case.
Southern District of Florida Assistant United States Attorney Annika Miranda is handling asset forfeiture.
The Justice Departments Office of International Affairs has provided significant assistance in this case.
The Fraud Section is responsible for investigating and prosecuting all Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) matters.
Additional information about the Justice Departments FCPA enforcement efforts can be found at www.
justice.gov/criminal/fraud/fcpa.
To learn more about the governments FCPA enforcement efforts, go to www.
justice.gov/criminal/fraud/fcpa.
The charges in the complaint are allegations, and the defendants are presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty.
Attachment(s): Download Cherrez complaint Download Luzuriaga complaintTopic(s):Financial FraudForeign CorruptionComponent(s):Criminal DivisionCriminal - Criminal Fraud SectionCriminal - Office of International AffairsPress Release Number:21-192
Updated March 2, 2021