https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/final-defendant-sentenced-7-billion-investment-fraud-scheme
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, February 24, 2021
Final Defendant Sentenced in $7 Billion Investment Fraud Scheme
The former chief of Antiguas Financial Services Regulatory Commission (FSRC) was sentenced today to 10 years in prison for his role in connection with a $7 billion Ponzi scheme involving the Stanford International Bank (SIB).
Leroy King, 74, of Dickerson Bay, Antigua, pleaded guilty on Jan.
30, 2020, to one count of conspiracy to obstruct justice and one count of obstruction of justice for his role in obstructing the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) investigation into SIB.
He was extradited to the United States in November 2019.
King is a dual citizen of the United States and Antigua.
Beginning in approximately 2002, he served as the administrator and CEO of the FSRC, an agency of the Antiguan government.
As part of his duties, he was responsible for Antiguas regulatory oversight of Stanford International Bank Limiteds (SIBL) investment portfolio, including the review of SIBL financial reports and responses to requests by foreign regulators, including the SEC, for information and documents about SIBLs operations.
In or about 2005, the SEC began investigating R.
Allen Stanford and Stanford Financial Group (SFG) and made official inquiries with the FSRC regarding the value and content of SIBLs purported investments.
King admitted that Stanfords cash payments to King totaled approximately $520,963.87 over the course of the conspiracy.
Stanford also provided King tickets to both Super Bowl XXXVIII in Houston (2004) and Super Bowl XL in Detroit (2006).
In addition, Stanford provided King with repeated flights on private jets Stanford or SFG entities owned.
King later denied the SECs request for help, and he wrote that the FSRC had no authority to act in the manner requested and would itself be in breach of law if it were to accede to your request.
 In reality, the FSRC did have this authority and failed to exercise it because of the payments and other benefits Stanford gave to King.
A federal jury found Stanford guilty in June 2012 for his role in orchestrating a 20-year investment fraud scheme in which he misappropriated $7 billion from SIB to finance his personal businesses.
He is serving a 110-year prison sentence.
Five others were also convicted for their roles in the scheme and received sentences ranging from 3 to 20 years in federal prison.
Acting Assistant Attorney General Nicholas L.
McQuaid of the Justice Departments Criminal Division and USA Attorney Ryan K.
Patrick of the Southern District of Texas made the announcement.
The Houston Field Offices of the FBI, IRS-CI, and USA Postal Inspection Service investigated the case.
Trial Attorney Brittain Shaw of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section and Assistant USA Attorney John Pearson of the Southern District of Texas prosecuted the case.
The Justice Department extends its gratitude to the government of Antigua for its cooperation and assistance.
Topic(s):Securities, Commodities, & Investment FraudComponent(s):Criminal DivisionCriminal - Criminal Fraud SectionUSAO - Texas, SouthernPress Release Number:21-177
Updated February 24, 2021