https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/wife-el-chapo-arrested-international-drug-trafficking-charges
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Monday, February 22, 2021
Wife of El Chapo Arrested on International Drug Trafficking Charges
The wife of Joaquin El Chapo Guzman Loera, leader of a Mexican drug trafficking organization known as the Sinaloa Cartel, was arrested today in Virginia on charges related to her alleged involvement in international drug trafficking.
Emma Coronel Aispuro, 31, a dual USA-Mexican citizen, of Culiacan, Sinaloa, Mexico, was arrested today at Dulles International Airport.
She is scheduled to make her initial appearance in federal court tomorrow in the USA District Court for the District of Columbia via video conference.
According to court documents, Aispuro is charged with participating in a conspiracy to distribute cocaine, methamphetamine, heroin and marijuana for importation into the USA Additionally, Coronel Aispuro is alleged to have conspired with others to assist Guzman in his July 11, 2015 escape from Altiplano prison, located in Almoloya de Juarez, Mexico.
After Guzman was re-arrested in Mexico in January 2016, Coronel Aispuro is alleged to have engaged in planning yet another prison escape with others prior to Guzmans extradition to the USA in January 2017.
Guzman Loera was convicted by a jury in the Eastern District of New York in 2019 for his role as a leader of the Sinaloa Cartel.
Cornel Aispuro is charged in a one count criminal complaint with a conspiracy to distribute one kilogram or more of heroin, five kilograms or more of cocaine, 1,000 kilograms or more of marijuana, and 500grams or more of methamphetamines for unlawful importation into the USA
Acting Assistant Attorney General Nicholas L.
McQuaid of the Justice Departments Criminal Division and Assistant Director in Charge Steven DAntuono of the FBIs Washington Field Office made the announcement.
The FBIs Washington Field Office is investigating the case.
Acting Deputy Chief Anthony Nardozzi and Trial Attorney Kate Wagner of the Justice Departments Narcotic and Dangerous Drug Section are prosecuting the case.
A criminal complaint is merely an allegation and all defendants are presumed innocent until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law.
Attachment(s): Download Aispuro complaint affidavitTopic(s):Drug TraffickingComponent(s):Criminal DivisionCriminal - Narcotic and Dangerous Drug SectionFederal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)Press Release Number:21-171
Updated February 22, 2021