https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/federal-contractor-agrees-pay-more-6-million-settle-overbilling-allegations
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, February 19, 2021
Federal Contractor Agrees to Pay More Than $6 Million to Settle Overbilling Allegations
Virginia-based Information Innovators Inc.
(Triple-I) has agreed to pay the United States $6.05 million to resolve allegations that a predecessor company, Creative Computing Solutions Inc.
(CCSi), violated the False Claims Act by knowingly overbilling the USA Department of Homeland Security (DHS) for work performed by CCSi employees who lacked required job qualifications.
Triple-I, which provides IT services and solutions to federal agencies, acquired Maryland-based CCSi in 2015.
CCSi formerly provided IT services to DHS pursuant to an Enterprise Acquisition Gateway for Leading Edge Solutions Contract (EAGLE Contract).
The settlement resolves allegations that, from October 2007 to April 2014, CCSi knowingly submitted claims for payment to DHS for work performed by CCSi employees who lacked required job qualifications.
CCSi allegedly violated the terms of the EAGLE Contract by using under-qualified personnel who were billed to DHS at higher rates reserved for more qualified employees.
Contractors that knowingly overcharge the government will be held accountable, said Acting Attorney General Brian M.
Boynton of the Justice Departments Civil Division.
The department will ensure that that those who do business with the government, and seek taxpayer funds, do so fairly and in accordance with their contractual commitments.

Defense contractors are required to bill for costs actually incurred, and to be truthful in the claims they submit to federal agencies, said Acting USA Attorney Jonathan F.
Lenzner for the District of Maryland.
The USA Attorneys Office and our partners are committed to protecting taxpayer dollars and ensuring integrity and compliance with federal agency standards.

DHS OIG remains committed to protecting government programs, and American taxpayers who contribute to them, from fraudsters, said Inspector General Joseph V.
Cuffari.
Our agency, working closely with our law enforcement partners, will continue to root out these unlawful contracting fraud schemes.

The settlement was a result of a joint investigation by the Civil Divisions Commercial Litigation Branch (Fraud Section), the USA Attorneys Office for the District of Maryland, and the Department of Homeland Security Office of the Inspector Generals Major Frauds and Corruption Unit.
The claims resolved by the settlement are allegations only and there has been no determination of liability.
Attachment(s): Download CCSi Settlement Agreement.
pdfTopic(s):False Claims ActComponent(s):Civil DivisionUSAO - MarylandPress Release Number:21-163
Updated February 19, 2021