https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/doctor-pleads-guilty-not-paying-employment-taxes
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, February 12, 2021
Doctor Pleads Guilty to Not Paying Employment Taxes
Admits Did Not Pay IRS More Than $2 Million in Employment and Corporate Taxes
A doctor, formerly of Great Falls, Virginia, pleaded guilty today to willful failure to pay employment taxes, announced Acting Deputy Assistant Attorney General Stuart M.
Goldberg of the Justice Departments Tax Division and Acting USA Attorney Raj Parekh for the Eastern District of Virginia.
According to court documents, from 2011 through 2018, Arshad Pervez Cheema owned and operated Walk-In Medical Center PC, a medical practice located in Falls Church and Herndon, Virginia.
Cheema was responsible for collecting and paying to the IRS payroll taxes, which consisted of Social Security, Medicare, and income taxes that had been withheld from his employees wages, as well as an employer portion.
Over a four-year period from 2012 to 2016, Cheema willfully did not pay over $500,000 in payroll taxes.
Instead, he used some of the withheld funds for other business ventures, including to open and run a restaurant in Washington, D.
C.
In addition, Cheema did not pay corporate taxes for Walk-In Medical Center PC, nor did he pay employment taxes for another doctors office, Falls Church Family Care PC, which he operated.
In total, Cheema did not pay over $2 million in employment and corporate taxes.
USA District Judge Anthony J.
Trenga scheduled sentencing for June 23, 2021.
At sentencing, Cheema faces a maximum sentence of five years imprisonment.
Cheema also faces a period of supervised release, restitution, and a fine.
Acting Deputy Assistant Attorney General Goldberg and Acting USA Attorney Parekh commended special agents of IRS-Criminal Investigation, who conducted the investigation, and Trial Attorney Casey S.
Smith and Assistant USA Attorney Russell L.
Carlberg, who are prosecuting the case.
Additional information about the Tax Division and its enforcement efforts may be found on the Divisions website.
Topic(s):TaxComponent(s):Tax DivisionPress Release Number:21-152
Updated February 12, 2021