https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/us-citizen-charged-murder-department-defense-employee-bahrain
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, February 12, 2021
USA Citizen Charged with Murder of Department of Defense Employee in Bahrain
A USA citizen arrived in the United States today after being ordered detained and removed from Bahrain to the United States for the alleged murder of his mother, a Department of Defense civilian employee working in Bahrain.
Acting Assistant Attorney General Nicholas L.
McQuaid of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, USA Attorney Robert K.
Hur of the District of Maryland and Special Agent in Charge Jonathan Oakes of the USA Naval Criminal Investigative Service, Middle East Field Office made the announcement.
Giovonni Pope, 27, was charged with murder by way of criminal complaint in the District of Maryland Tuesday.
USA military authorities in Bahrain arrested Pope and his initial appearance was held via video teleconference, at which time he was ordered detained and removed to the United States pursuant to the Military Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act.
According to the complaint, on Jan.
31, Pope stabbed his mother, causing her death.
In the hours that followed, Pope purchased a plane ticket back to the United States and attempted to clean the residence and dispose of evidence of the crime.
The case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorneys Brian Morgan and James Hepburn of the Criminal Divisions Human Rights and Special Prosecutions Section and Assistant USA Attorney P.
Michael Cunningham of the District of Maryland.
The case is being investigated by the USA Naval Criminal Investigative Service.
The Justice Departments Office of International Affairs provided assistance.
The charges in the complaint are merely accusations, and the defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law.
Attachment(s): Download Pope criminal complaintTopic(s):Violent CrimeComponent(s):Criminal DivisionCriminal - Human Rights and Special Prosecution SectionCriminal - Office of International AffairsUSAO - MarylandPress Release Number:21-150
Updated February 12, 2021