https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/indiana-man-pleads-guilty-hate-crime-making-racially-charged-motivated-threats-toward-black
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, February 12, 2021
Indiana Man Pleads Guilty to Hate Crime for Making Racially-Charged Motivated Threats Toward Black Neighbor and to Unlawful Possession of Firearms
The Justice Department announced today that Shepherd Hoehn, 51, pleaded guilty in federal court to making threats to intimidate and interfere with his neighbor, who is Black, because of the neighbors race and because the neighbor was exercising his right to fair housing, in violation of 42 USAC.
3631.
Hoehn also pleaded guilty to unlawfully possessing firearms, in violation of 18 USAC.
 922(g).
According to documents filed in connection with the plea, on June 18, 2020, a construction crew began working at the direction of Hoehns neighbor to remove a tree from the neighbors property.
Upon learning of the tree removal, Hoehn became angry and took several steps to threaten, intimidate and interfere with his neighbor and the construction workers.
Specifically, Hoehn placed and burned a cross above the fence line facing his neighbors property; created and displayed a swastika on the outer side of his fence, facing his neighbors property; created and displayed a large sign containing a variety of anti-Black racial slurs next to the swastika; visibly displayed a machete near the sign with the racial slurs; loudly played the song Dixie on repeat; and threw eggs at his neighbors house.
On July 1, 2020, the FBI executed a federal search warrant at Hoehns home.
During the search, several firearms and drug paraphernalia were located.
Hoehns hateful and threatening conduct, motivated by racial intolerance, is an egregious crime that will not be tolerated by the Justice Department, said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Pam Karlan of the Civil Rights Division.
Every person has a right to occupy, enjoy and feel safe in their homes, regardless of race, color or national origin.
We will continue to protect the civil rights of all individuals and vigorously prosecute hate crime cases.

Threats and intimidation, condemnable at all times, are here made all the more reprehensible by Hoehns racial motivations, said Acting USA Attorney John Childress.
The citizens of the Southern District of Indiana rightfully expect to be protected from such illegal conduct and expect that those who engage in it to be punished.
The men and women of my office will meet those expectations.

Its unimaginable that harassment and intimidation such as this based on race, sexual identity or religious beliefs still exists in this day and age.
Such incidents are intended to create fear and will not be tolerated by the FBI, said Special Agent in Charge Paul Keenan of the FBI Indianapolis Division.
The FBI and our law enforcement partners will continue to ensure that if a crime is motivated by bias, it will be investigated and the perpetrators held responsible for their actions.
We encourage everyone to report such crimes to the FBI.

Hoehns sentencing date has not been set at this time.
Hoehn faces a maximum statutory penalty of 10 years in prison and a fine of up to $250,000 for each of the charged offenses.
This case was investigated by the FBI, with assistance from the Lawrence Police Department.
Assistant USA Attorney Brad Shepard of the Southern District of Indiana and Trial Attorney Katherine DeVar of the Justice Departments Civil Rights Division are prosecuting the case.
# # #
Topic(s):Civil RightsHate CrimesComponent(s):Civil Rights DivisionPress Release Number:21-148
Updated February 12, 2021