https://www.transportation.gov/stop-trains-cant
Stop.
Trains Cant.
The USA Department of Transportations Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) have launched a national railroad crossing safety ad campaign to increase public awareness around railroad tracks and reduce crossing deaths and injuries.
Although accidents at railroad crossings are an old problem, the problem is easily avoidable.
This ad is the latest in a three-year, focused effort to reverse the uptick in railroad crossing fatalities.
Its message is simple: Stop.
Trains cant.
For more information, please visit: https://www.
trafficsafetymarketing.gov/get-materials/rail-grade-crossing/stop-trains-cant.
Joint letter to Members of Congress from NHTSA Deputy Administrator Heidi King and FRA Administrator Ronald Batory.
Did you knowAbout every three hours, a person or vehicle is hit by a train in the USAMost, if not all, of these accidents can be prevented.
How can you help prevent these accidents?By the Numbers: Railroad Crossing SafetyWhat FRA is doing to improve railroad crossing safetyAwarding over $65 million through the Consolidated Rail Infrastructure and Safety Improvements (CRISI) grant program to invest in a wide range of projects to improve railroad safety, efficiency and reliability, which can include grade crossing improvement projectsInitiating a Law Enforcement Strategies for Reducing Trespassing Pilot Grant Program to assist communities at risk for rail trespassing related incidents and fatalitiesPartnering with tech companies to add alerts of upcoming railroad crossings to map applicationsTesting intrusion detection technology to provide advanced warning to trains of a vehicle on tracksEstablishing FRAs Transportation Technology Center (TTC) in Pueblo, CO, as a center of Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS) research for railroad and first responder activitiesPartnering with Operation Lifesaver, Inc.
on rail safety education initiatives to empower drivers to make safe choices at crossings
Last updated: Friday, January 6, 2017