https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/man-sentenced-engaging-illicit-sexual-conduct-minors-republic-kenya
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, February 4, 2021
Man Sentenced for Engaging in Illicit Sexual Conduct with Minors in the Republic of Kenya
A Pennsylvania man was sentenced today to over 15 years in prison plus a lifetime of supervised release, and ordered to pay $16,000 in restitution for engaging in illicit sexual conduct in a foreign place.
Acting Assistant Attorney General Nicholas L.
McQuaid of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, Acting USA Attorney Jennifer Arbittier Williams of the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, and Special Agent in Charge Michael Driscoll of the FBIs Philadelphia Field Office made the announcement.
According to information provided to the court, the investigation of this case revealed that Gregory Dow, 61, of Lancaster County, traveled to the Republic of Kenya in 2008 to start an orphanage which came to be known as the Dow Family Childrens Home.
While running the orphanage with his wife, Dow sexually abused, on multiple occasions, four minor girls between October 2013 and September 2017.
During this time period, he maintained ties to the United States.
The FBIs Philadelphia Field Office conducted the investigation with assistance from Kenyan authorities and local law enforcement in Lancaster County.
Trial Attorneys Lauren S.
Kupersmith and Lauren E.
Britsch of the Criminal Divisions Child Exploitation and Obscenity Section (CEOS) and Assistant USA Attorney Timothy M.
Stengel of the Eastern District of Pennsylvania prosecuted the case.
This case was brought as part of Project Safe Childhood, a nationwide initiative to combat the growing epidemic of child sexual exploitation and abuse launched in May 2006 by the Department of Justice.
Led by USA Attorneys Offices and CEOS, Project Safe Childhood marshals federal, state and local resources to better locate, apprehend and prosecute individuals who exploit children via the internet, as well as to identify and rescue victims.
For more information about Project Safe Childhood, please visit www.
justice.gov/psc.
Topic(s):Project Safe ChildhoodComponent(s):Criminal DivisionCriminal - Child Exploitation and Obscenity SectionFederal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)USAO - Pennsylvania, EasternPress Release Number:21-128
Updated February 4, 2021