https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/complaint-seeks-forfeiture-iranian-oil-aboard-tanker-based-connection-terror-group
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, February 3, 2021
Complaint Seeks Forfeiture of Iranian Oil Aboard Tanker Based on Connection to Terror Group
The United States filed a forfeiture complaint in the USA District Court for the District of Columbia alleging that all oil aboard a Liberian-flagged vessel, the M/T Achilleas (Achilleas), is subject to forfeiture based on USA terrorism forfeiture laws.
The complaint alleges a scheme involving multiple entities affiliated with Irans Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) and the IRGC-Qods Force (IRGC-QF) to covertly ship Iranian oil to a customer abroad.
Participants in the scheme attempted to disguise the origin of the oil using ship-to-ship transfers, falsified documents, and other means, and provided a fraudulent bill of lading to deceive the owners of the Achilleas into loading the oil in question.
The complaint alleges in part that the oil constitutes the property of, or a source of influence over, the IRGC and the IRGC-QF, both of which have been designated by the United States as foreign terrorist organizations.
The documents allege that profits from oil sales support the IRGCs full range of nefarious activities, including the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and their means of delivery, support for terrorism, and a variety of human rights abuses, at home and abroad.
The forfeiture complaint filed today serves as a reminder that the IRGC and IRGC-QF continue to exert significant control over the sale of Iranian oil, said Assistant Attorney General John C.
Demers for the National Security Division.
As we have demonstrated in the past, the department will deploy all tools at its disposal to ensure that the IRGC and IRGC-QF cannot use profits from the sale of Iranian oil to fund terrorism and other activities that threaten the safety and security of all Americans.

The USA Attorneys Office for the District of Columbia will continue working with our law enforcement partners to stem the flow of illicit oil from Irans Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps and Qods Force, said Acting USA Attorney Michael R.
Sherwin.
We will use all available tools, including our jurisdiction to seize and forfeit assets located abroad, to combat funding for terrorists and those who would do harm to the United States.

This latest civil forfeiture action exemplifies the remarkable work of this multi-agency task force that works tirelessly toward furthering our shared goal of protecting the homeland from regimes that threaten our national security, said Special Agent in Charge Peter C.
Fitzhugh for the USA Immigration and Customs Enforcements Homeland Security Investigations (HSI), New York.
This investigation sends a message that the attempted circumvention of USA sanctions by the IRGC-QF will not be tolerated.
HSI will continue to work with our partners and utilize the full scope of our authorities to disrupt the attempts of hostile countries and regimes to generate profits from oil sales used to support terrorism and the proliferation and delivery of weapons of mass destruction.

Iran uses profits from its petroleum sector to fund the malign activities of the IRGC-QF, a designated terrorist group, said Special Agent in Charge Michael F.
Paul of the FBIs Minneapolis Field Office.
The FBI will continue to prioritize the enforcement of sanctions, and we applaud the efforts of our agents and partners on this investigation.

A civil forfeiture complaint is merely an allegation.
The United States bears the burden of proving that the oil in question is subject to forfeiture in a civil forfeiture proceeding.
Funds successfully forfeited with a connection to a state sponsor of terrorism may in whole or in part be directed to the United States Victims of State Sponsored Terrorism Fund (http://www.
usvsst.
com/) after the conclusion of the case.
HSI New York and the FBIs Minneapolis Field Office are leading the investigation of Iranian petroleum shipments.
Assistant USA Attorneys Michael P.
Grady and Brian P.
Hudak of the USA Attorneys Office for the District of Columbia and Trial Attorney David Lim of the Counterintelligence and Export Control Section of the National Security Division are prosecuting the case.
The Money Laundering and Asset Recovery Sections Program Operations Staff of the Justice Departments Criminal Division has provided extensive assistance throughout the investigation.
Attachment(s): Download Achilleas ComplaintTopic(s):Counterintelligence and Export ControlNational SecurityComponent(s):Criminal - Money Laundering and Asset Recovery SectionFederal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)National Security Division (NSD)USAO - District of ColumbiaPress Release Number:21-118
Updated February 3, 2021