https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/former-natural-gas-trader-pleads-guilty-role-commodities-insider-trading-scheme
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Monday, February 1, 2021
Former Natural Gas Trader Pleads Guilty for Role in Commodities Insider Trading Scheme
A former natural gas trader pleaded guilty today to conspiracy to commit commodities fraud and wire fraud for his role in an insider trading scheme.
John Ed James, 51, of Katy, Texas, pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to commit commodities fraud and wire fraud before USA District Judge Vanessa Gilmore of the Southern District of Texas.
Sentencing has been scheduled for April 26, 2021, before Judge Gilmore.
When individuals engage in deceptive trade practices and manipulate the commodities market for their personal gain, they undermine the publics confidence in the USA markets and stack the deck against other traders and investors, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Nicholas L.
McQuaid of the Justice Departments Criminal Division.
The department and our law enforcement partners will continue to pursue and prosecute those who engage in such activity.

That executives continue to use inside nonpublic information for their own gainillustrates that prosecutors must investigate and pursue these cases, said USA Attorney Ryan K.
Patrick of the Southern District of Texas.
These conspirators cooked the books and shared the loot  plain and simple.

Commodities fraud and insider trading undermine the integrity of the markets, in this case the energy market which plays a key role in the Houston area economy, said Special Agent in Charge Perrye K.
Turner of the FBIs Houston Field Office.
The FBI will continue tocombat criminal violations of the commodities laws to eliminate unscrupulous activity and protect market participants so thatthe public will continue to have trust in the system.

As part of his guilty plea, James admitted that he conspired with others to misappropriate material, nonpublic information and to use that information to engage in fraudulent, pre-arranged trades in natural gas futures contracts.
These pre-arranged trades generated approximately $966,403 in illicit proceeds.
He further admitted that the net profits from these fraudulent trades were split between himself and others involved in the fraudulent trading scheme.
James also admitted that he and others agreed to falsely document certain proceeds as income on IRS forms in part to conceal the true nature of the funds and to make the illicit profits appear to be legitimate income paid.
In a related case, Marcus Schultz, 41, previously pleaded guilty before Judge Gilmore on July 20, 2020, to a one-count information charging him with conspiracy to commit wire fraud and to violate various provisions of the Commodity Exchange Act, including 17 C.
F.
R.
 180.1.
Sentencing is scheduled for June 14, 2021.
This matter marks the Department of Justices first effort to prosecute insider trading in the commodity markets under Section 180.1.
This case is the result of an ongoing investigation by the FBIs Houston Field Office and the IRS-CIs Houston Field Office.
Trial Attorneys Jennifer Farer, Drew Bradylyons, and Della Sentilles of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section and Assistant USA Attorney Suzanne Elmilady of the Southern District of Houston are prosecuting the case.
The Criminal Divisions Fraud Section plays a pivotal role in the Department of Justices fight against white collar crime around the country and is the national leader in prosecuting fraud and manipulation in the USA commodity markets.
Topic(s):Securities, Commodities, & Investment FraudComponent(s):Criminal DivisionCriminal - Criminal Fraud SectionFederal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)USAO - Texas, SouthernPress Release Number:21-121
Updated February 1, 2021