https://www.transportation.gov/safety/mask-travel-guidance
Frequently Asked Questions
Wearing of Face Masks While on Conveyances and at Transportation Hubs
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) issued an Order on January 29, 2021, requiring the wearing of masks by travelers to prevent spread of the virus that causes COVID-19.
Conveyance operators must also require that all persons wear masks when boarding, disembarking, and for the duration of travel, with certain exemptions as described in the Questions below.
The Order defines conveyance as including aircraft, train, road vehicle (including rideshares), vesselor other means of transport, including military transport.
 (42 CFR  70.1, 71.1).
Operators of transportation hubs must require all persons wear a mask when entering or on the premises of a transportation hub.
A transportation hub means any airport, bus terminal, marina, seaport, or other port, subway station, terminal, train station, USA port of entry, or any other location that provides transportation.
More information about this order can be found on the CDCs website, including CDCs FAQs for this mask requirement, here.
The Transportation Security Administration (TSA) has issued an emergency amendment and three security directives in support of the CDC Order.
They can be found here.
SD 1582/84-21-01 pertains directly to owners and operators of ground transport.
The other three pertain to the aviation industry.
For more information about the TSAs COVID-19 prevention efforts visit their COVID-19 hub, or their COVID-19 FAQs.
To assist ground transportation operators in the implementation of the Order and the Directive, the USA Department of Transportation (USDOT) compiled a list of questions and answers, and will continue to update them as additional information becomes available.
The USDOT will also continue to engage stakeholders in conjunction with the CDC and other Federal agencies.
For air transportation operators, please see FAAs Fly Healthy web page for more information.
General
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)
Federal Railroad Administration (FRA)
Federal Motor CarrierSafety Administration (FMCSA)
Expand All
Collapse All
General
What is the CDCs Order and who does it apply to?
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) issued an Order on January 29, 2021, requiring the wearing of masks by travelers to prevent spread of the virus that causes COVID-19.
Conveyance operators must require all persons to wear masks when boarding, disembarking, and for the duration of travel.
Operators of transportation hubs must require all persons to wear a mask when entering or on the premises of a transportation hub.
This Order must be followed by all passengers on public conveyances (e.
g.
, airplanes, ships, ferries, trains, subways, buses, taxis, rideshares) traveling into, within, or out of the United States as well as conveyance operators (e.
g.
, crew, drivers, conductors, and other workers involved in the operation of conveyances) and operators of transportation hubs (e.
g.
, airports, bus or ferry terminals, train or subway stations, seaports, ports of entry) or any other area that provides transportation in the United States.
People must wear masks that cover both the mouth and nose when awaiting, boarding, traveling on, or disembarking public conveyances.
People must also wear masks when entering or on the premises of a transportation hub in the United States.
What does the CDC Order require?
The CDC Order requires conveyance operators to use their best efforts to ensure that persons wear masks while boarding and disembarking a conveyance, for the duration of a trip, and within a transportation hub.
Best efforts may include:
Boarding and allowing entry to only those persons who wear masks;
Instructing persons that Federal law requires wearing a mask on the conveyance and in the transportation hub and failure to comply constitutes a violation of Federal law;
Monitoring persons onboard conveyances and in facilities for anyone who is not wearing a mask and seeking compliance from such persons;
At the earliest opportunity, disembarking any person who refuses to comply; and
Providing persons with prominent and adequate notice to facilitate awareness and compliance of the requirement to wear a mask, with best practices including, if feasible, advance notifications on digital platforms, such as on apps, websites, or email; posted signage in multiple languages with illustrations; printing the requirement on tickets; and other methods as appropriate.
Best efforts should take into consideration the safety of conveyance operators when identifying roles and responsibilities for implementing the CDC Order.
What if we have a local mask mandate already in place?
The CDC Order does not apply within any state, locality, territory, or area under the jurisdiction of a tribe that: (1) requires a person to wear a mask on conveyances; (2) requires a person to wear a mask at transportation hubs; and (3) requires conveyances to transport only a person wearing a mask.
Such state, local, territorial, or tribal requirements must provide the same level of public health protection asor greater protection thanthe requirements of the CDC Order.
In addition, the CDC Order does not preclude operators from imposing additional requirements or conditions that provide greater public health protection and are more restrictive than the requirements of the CDC Order.
How does CDC define mask?
Mask means a material covering the nose and mouth of the wearer, excluding face shields.
CDC guidance for acceptable masks in the context of this Order is available here.
Are there any exemptions to the CDC Order?
The CDC Order exempts the following categories of persons:
A child under the age of 2 years;
A person with a disability who cannot wear a mask, or cannot safely wear a mask, because of the disability as defined by the Americans with Disabilities Act (42 USAC.
 12101 et seq.
); and
A person for whom wearing a mask would create a risk to workplace health, safety, or job duty as determined by the relevant workplace safety guidelines or federal regulations.
The exemption for a person with a disability is a narrow exception that includes a person with a disability who cannot wear a mask for reasons related to the disability.
CDC will issue additional guidance regarding persons who cannot wear a mask under this exemption here.
The CDC Order also states that the requirement to wear a mask shall not apply under the following circumstances:
While eating, drinking, or taking medication, for brief periods;
While communicating with a person who is hearing impaired when the ability to see the mouth is essential for communication;
If unconscious (for reasons other than sleeping), incapacitated, unable to be awakened, or otherwise unable to remove the mask without assistance; or
When necessary to temporarily remove the mask to verify ones identity, such as when asked to do so by a ticket or gate agent or any law enforcement official.
In addition, persons who are experiencing difficulty breathing or shortness of breath or are feeling winded may remove the mask temporarily until able to resume normal breathing with the mask.
Persons who are vomiting should remove the mask until vomiting ceases.
Persons with acute illness may remove the mask if it interferes with necessary medical care such as supplemental oxygen administered via an oxygen mask.
Are conveyance operators permitted to impose additional requirements or conditions regarding masks?
Yes.
The CDC Order does not preclude operators from imposing additional requirements or conditions that provide greater public health protection and are more restrictive than the requirements of the CDC Order.
The Order also encourages, State, local, territorial, and tribal governmental entities that operate conveyances to implement additional measures to enforce the Order regarding persons utilizing their system.
Additional requirements or conditions may be imposed that provide greater public health protection and are more restrictive than the requirements of the CDC Order, including requirements for persons requesting an exemption from the mask requirement, including medical consultation by a third party, medical documentation by a licensed medical provider, and/or other information as determined by the operator.
How long is the CDC Order in effect?
The effective date of the CDC Order is February 1, 2021, at 11:59 p.
m.
The Order will remain in effect for the duration of the COVID-19 public health emergency, and as determined by the CDC.
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)
For air transportation operators, please see FAAs Fly Healthy web page for more information.
Federal Transit Administration (FTA)
Are transit operators considered a public conveyance?
Yes.
Is Federal funding available to support implementation of the CDC Order?
Yes.
FTA recipients may use the $39 billion in Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (CARES Act) and Coronavirus Response and Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2021 (CRRSAA) funds to implement the CDC Order.
Operating expenses incurred beginning on January 20, 2020, for all rural, and small and large urban recipients, also are eligible to draw from FTA urbanized area and rural formula funds, including operating expenses to purchase and provide face masks to employees or passengers, install additional cameras in transit vehicles, hire additional transit security personnel, and/or enter into additional contracts for security services to implement the CDC Order.
Federal Emergency Management Agency funding also may be available.
Who should I contact if I have questions about the face mask requirement for transit?
Please submit your questions about the implementation of the CDC Order for public transit to TransitMaskUp@dot.gov.
What technical assistance will FTA provide to support implementation of the CDC Order?
In coordination with Federal partners, FTA will support transits implementation of the CDC Order, with a focus on leveraging its existing technical assistance and stakeholder engagement platforms, including the following:
Coordinating and publishing FAQs with Federal partnersto provide the transit industry with guidance on implementing requirements of E.
O.
13998, the CDC Order, the TSA Security Directive, and applicable Federal guidance.
FTA will post responses to Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) on\u202fthe DOT\u202fFAQ page.
Please submit your questions about the implementation of the CDC Order for public transit to\u202fTransitMaskUp@dot.gov.
Additionally, in accordance with Executive Order 13166, FTA will ensure that FAQs will be made available in languages other than English, to ensure access for individuals with limited English proficiency.
Hosting industry-wide stakeholder calls,weekly during February and as needed, to deliver key messages on the mask requirement to a broad transit audience.
Hosting listening sessions with transit stakeholdersto provide an opportunity for transit agencies across the United States to share their experiences and lessons learned as they implement a mask requirement and respond to the COVID-19 public health emergency.
When necessary, FTA will ensure these sessions are accessible in languages other than English.
Encouraging transit industry engagement in the FTA-sponsored COVID-19 Recovery Discussion Forumto facilitate peer-to-peer exchanges on ideas, practices, and other information related to implementation of a mask requirement.
Continuing to work with the American Public Transportation Association and the Community Transportation Association of America to produce a COVID-19 Recovery Vendor List for Transit, which documents over 350 vendors providing critical materials for transits COVID-19 recovery efforts.
Publishing updates to the COVID-19 Recovery Practices in Transit resource, which provides web links to practices implemented by transit systems across the globe to respond to the COVID-19 public health emergency.
In providing this resource, FTA also will remind transit agencies to ensure that publicly available information related to COVID-19 practices are made available in languages other than English.
Publishing weekly updates to the COVID-19 Resource Tool, a one-stop-shop for Federal COVID-19 guidance and recommendations on transit-related topics.
This tool includes information from CDC on face masks.
Does the mask requirement apply to Section 5310 operators?
The CDCOrderapplies to all recipients and subrecipients of Federal funding under 49 USAC.
Chapter 53 that own, operate, or maintain apublic transportation system, includingan entity that receives Federal financial assistance only under the formula grants for Enhanced Mobility of Seniors and Individuals with Disabilities (49 USAC.
5310).
Does FTA have training on de-escalation for transit operators?
Yes.
FTA works with the National Transit Institute at Rutgers University to deliver a 3-hour training on Assault Awareness and Prevention for Transit Operators, which addresses de-escalation techniques.
Virtual offerings of this training became available beginning in February 2021.
The goal of the course is to give vehicle operators in the transit industry  with an emphasis on bus operatorsthe knowledge and skills needed to reduce the likelihood of assault incidents from occurring.
Prevention methods covered include discussing the types of incidents that could be considered assault and recognizing key vulnerability factors.
Prevention strategies focus on communication and response skills, and the value of reporting incidents.
What Federal resources will be available to support enforcement of mask usage on transit systems and to reduce the risk of assault to employees who might enforce the CDC Order?
The primary goal of the CDC Order is compliance, not enforcement.
The CDC Order requires transit operators to use their best efforts to ensure that persons wear masks while boarding and alighting a transit vehicle, for the duration of a trip, and within a transit facility.
Best efforts should take into consideration the safety of transit employees when identifying roles and responsibilities for implementing the CDC Order.
FTA recipients may use the $39 billion in Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (CARES Act) and Coronavirus Response and Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2021 (CRRSAA) funds to implement the CDC Order.
Operating expenses incurred beginning on January 20, 2020, for all rural, and small and large urban recipients, also are eligible to draw from FTA urbanized area and rural formula funds, including operating expenses to purchase and provide face masks to employees or passengers, install additional cameras in transit vehicles, hire additional transit security personnel, and/or enter into additional contracts for security services to implement the CDC Order.
Federal Emergency Management Agency funding also may be available.
Do transit employees who work behind plexiglass barriers or shields on public transportation conveyances or in transportation hubs still need to wear a face mask?
Yes.
A transit employee is required to wear a mask unless covered under an exemption, even if the employee is separated from passengers or other employees by plexiglass or another protective barrier.
While protective barriers help limit transmission, respiratory droplets that can spread the virus that causes COVID-19 still can enter shielded areas.
Masks provide an additional and necessary layer of protection against transmission.
Does the mask requirement apply in administrative facilities?
The CDC Order applies to administrative facilities that are housed within transportation hubs.
Administrative facilities include, for example, executive offices, training facilities, and construction field offices.
Transit employees must wear masks while on public transportation conveyances, and on the premises of a transportation hub unless they are the only person in the work area, such as in a private office.
As applied to transit, public transportation conveyances are transit vehicles being used in revenue service.
A transportation hub is any location where people gather to await, board, or disembark public transportation, such as bus and ferry terminals, train and subway stations, and ride-share pick-up locations.
It also includes any facility directly involved in the provision of transit service, such as ticket sales offices, vehicle maintenance facilities, vehicle cleaning facilities, operations control centers, electric vehicle charging facilities, operator break areas, and fueling facilities.
Per the CDC Order, persons for whom a mask would create a risk to workplace health, safety, or job duty as determined by the relevant workplace safety guidelines or Federal regulations are not required to wear a mask.
A narrow subset of employees with disabilities also are exempt from the mask requirement under CDC Order because it would be unsafe for them to wear a mask due to their disability.
The CDCstates it will issue additional guidance regarding persons who cannot wear a mask under this exemption.
Does the mask requirement apply to employees in transit maintenance and operations facilities?
Yes.
Transit employees must wear masks while on public transportation conveyances and at transportation hubs.
The starting point is that everyone should be wearing a mask and employees are broadly required to wear masks by the CDC Order.
As applied to transit, public transportation conveyances are transit vehicles being used in revenue service.
A transportation hub is any location where people gather to await, board, or disembark public transportation, such as bus and ferry terminals, train and subway stations, and ride-share pick-up locations.
It also includes any facility directly involved in the provision of transit service, such as ticket sales offices, vehicle maintenance facilities, vehicle cleaning facilities, operations control centers, electric vehicle charging facilities, operator break areas, and fueling facilities.
An employee is not required to wear a mask if he/she is the only person in the work area, such as in a private office.
The CDC Order broadly requires persons to wear masks whenever possible, particularly in any transit facility or location where persons are not alone.
Employees must wear a mask while on the premises of a transportation hub unless they are the only person in the work area, such as in private offices.
The CDC Order exempts from the mask requirement persons for whom a mask would create a risk to workplace health, safety, or job duty as determined by the relevant workplace safety guidelines or Federal regulations; such persons are not required to wear a mask.
A narrow subset of employees with disabilities are also exempted from the mask requirement under CDCs Order because it would be unsafe for them to wear a mask due to their disability.
The CDCstates it will issue additional guidance regarding persons who cannot wear a mask under this exemption.
FTA encourages transit agencies to implement mask polices in all areas of their organizations, including those areas where masks are not required to be worn under the CDC Order.
The CDC has developed specific guides for rail and bus transit employers to protect transit workers in the workplace.
In addition, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) issued guidance, Protecting Workers: Guidance on Mitigating and Preventing the Spread of COVID-19 in the Workplace (dated January 29, 2021), to help identify risks of being exposed to COVID-19 in workplace settings and to determine any appropriate control measures to implement, which could be informative to the use of masks in transit offices and facilities.
How will FTA enforce the CDC Order?
FTA has amended the Master Agreement to incorporate the requirements of the CDC Order.
Pursuant to the terms and conditions of FTA Master Agreement FTA MA(28), FTA may take enforcement action against a recipient or subrecipient that fails to comply with this Order, including, but not limited to, actions authorized by 49 USAC.
 5329(g) and 2 CFR  200.339-.
340 when a recipient does not comply with Federal law with respect to the safety of its public transportation system.
Are riders with disabilities exempt from mask requirements?
The CDC Order exempts people with disabilities who cannot wear a mask, or cannot safely wear a mask, because of their disability, as defined by the Americans with Disabilities Act (42 USAC.
 12101,et seq.
).
This is a narrow exemption to be applied in very limited circumstances.
It is not meant to cover persons for whom mask-wearing may only be difficult.
TheTSA Security Directivegives examples of persons unable to wear a mask due to safety reasons who would be exempt, including those who do not understand how to wear or remove the mask due to cognitive impairment, or cannot wear or remove a mask on their own due to dexterity/mobility impairments.
The CDC issued supplemental guidance on the disability exemption that gives examples of persons with disabilities who are exempt from the mask-wearing requirement and those individuals who might be exempt.
See Disability Exemptions of the Order.
May a transit agency require requests for exemptions from mask requirements to be made in advance of travel?
Yes.
The TSA Security Directive states, Operators may further require that persons seeking exemption from the requirement to wear a mask request an accommodation in advance.
Operators may impose requirements, or conditions of carriage, on persons requesting an exemption from the requirement to wear a mask, including medical consultation by a third party, medical documentation by a licensed medical provider, and/or other information as determined by the owner/operator.

The exemption process is likely easier to implement in systems that require riders to make trip reservations in advance, and especially in Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) complementary paratransit service, where the agency has already confirmed the eligible riders disability status and functional limitations, and where the submittal of medical and other information is routine.
For fixed-route bus and rail systems, which do not require rider reservations, granting exemptions and ensuring only individuals qualified for an exemption ride without wearing a mask may be more challenging.
Consistent with the CDC Order and TSA Security Directive, fixed-route transit providers may require individuals to request an exemption in advance of being allowed to travel and could issue riders a card or other document noting the exemption to present to transit personnel on future trips.
Is a transit agency required to adopt a specific process for handling exemption requests, such as through its already required Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) reasonable modification of policy procedures?
Generally, no.
The TSA Security Directive does not dictate a specific process.
Most individuals, including those with disabilities, can tolerate and safely wear a mask.
However, a narrow subset of individuals with disabilities may not be able to wear a mask or cannot safely wear a mask.
Those who cannot safely wear a mask  for example, a person with a disability who, for reasons related to the disability, would be physically unable to remove a mask without assistance if breathing becomes obstructed  should not be required to wear one.
The current exemption for people with disabilities who cannot wear masks safely is in a TSA Security Directive, and is not a reasonable modification under the ADA.
Agencies have discretion in how they process such exemption requests; however, any process adopted should provide a prompt response to the person requesting the exemption.
The process also must be sufficiently advertised so that people know how to make the request.
49 CFR  37.167(f).
Public information explaining the process also should be provided in languages other than English consistent with the agencys Title VI program.
Does a transit agency need to ensure frontline workers and other personnel understand the exemption process for people with disabilities?
Yes.
Regardless of the exemption process an agency adopts, training and providing information to personnel on the process is key to ensuring effective implementation and appropriate communications with riders with disabilities.
The DOT Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) regulations at 49 CFR  37.173 require personnel to be prepared to properly assist and treat individuals with disabilities who use the service in a respectful and courteous way, with appropriate attention to the difference among individuals with disabilities.

COVID-19 Employer Information for Transit Maintenance Workers - CDC Guidance
CDC Guidance for Transit Maintenance Workers
What Rail Transit Operators Need to Know about COVID-19 - CDC Guidance
CDC Guidance for Rail Transit Operators
Are direct recipients, such as State Departments of Transportation (DOTs) and local governmental authorities, responsible for ensuring subrecipients implement the mask requirement?
Yes.
State DOTs and other direct recipients have the responsibility to ensure that subrecipients are implementing a mask requirement as a term of their grant agreements.
On February 9, 2021, FTA issued an amendment to its Master Agreement to incorporate the requirements of the CDC Order into the standard terms and conditions for all of its grants, cooperative agreements, and loans authorized by Federal public transportation law or administered by FTA.
Are State DOTs required to report non-compliant passengers to TSAs Transportation Security Operations Center (TSOC)?
It depends.
Under TSAs Security Directive, owners/operators must report to the TSOC at 1-866-615-5150 or 1-703-563-3240 if an individuals refusal to comply with the mask requirement constitutes a significant security concern.
State DOTs must report non-compliant passengers to the TSOC only if they are the owners/operators of the transportation conveyances or hubs where the incidents occurred.
Can local law enforcement enforce the mask requirement?
The CDC Order requires conveyance operators to use best efforts to ensure that any person, unless otherwise exempted, on the conveyance wears a mask when boarding, disembarking, and for the duration of travel; and operators of transportation hubs must use best efforts to ensure that any person entering or on the premises of the transportation hub wears a mask, unless otherwise exempted.
The TSA Security Directive requires that owner/operators establish procedures to manage situations with persons who refuse to comply with the mask requirement.
At a minimum, these procedures must ensure that if an individual refuses to comply with an instruction given by the owner/operator with respect to wearing a mask, the owner/operator must deny boarding, make best efforts to disembark the individual as soon as practicable, or make best efforts to remove the individual from the transportation hub/facility.
Satisfying the mask requirement could include obtaining support from cooperating local law enforcement to assist transit agencies with implementation and minimize confrontations between transit operators and passengers.
Can transit agencies choose not to deny boarding or remove passengers who refuse to wear a mask if local law enforcement does not assist, or if doing so would impact service or put operators in harms way?
Transit agencies must use best efforts to deny boarding to passengers who refuse to wear a mask, unless otherwise exempted, and make best efforts to disembark a passenger who removes a mask as soon as practicable unless the person is otherwise exempted.
As defined by the CDC Order, what actions constitute best efforts include:
Boarding only those persons who wear masks, unless persons not wearing masks are exempt from the CDC Order;
Instructing persons that Federal law requires wearing a mask and failure to comply constitutes a violation of Federal law;
Monitoring persons onboard for anyone who is not wearing a mask and, unless such persons are exempt from the CDC Order, seeking compliance from such persons; and
At the earliest opportunity, disembarking any person who refuses to comply.
TSA also clarifies that best efforts should take into consideration the safety of transit vehicle operators when identifying roles and responsibilities for implementing the CDC Order.
If an individuals refusal to comply with the mask requirement constitutes a significant security concern, the transit agency must report the incident to the Transportation Security Operations Center at 1-866-615-5150 or 1-703-563-3240 for tracking and consideration for possible penalties.
How does the requirement apply to riders who use oxygen?
Persons with acute illness may remove the mask if it interferes with necessary medical care such as supplemental oxygen administered via an oxygen mask (see footnote 7 of the CDC Order).
Persons who use oxygen full time may be exempt from the mask requirement if a mask interferes with the ability to use an oxygen mask.
CDC guidance on mask wearing seems to suggest people who have trouble breathing shouldnt wear masks, but what if these people dont qualify for an exemption under the CDC Order?
The CDC Order clarifies that persons who are having trouble breathing or shortness of breath, or are feeling winded, may remove the mask temporarily until able to resume normal breathing with the mask (see footnote 7 of the CDC Order).
What should transit agencies do when drivers with glasses report difficulty wearing masks because their glasses fog up?
The CDC Order requires transit employees to wear masks while engaging with passengers and operating transportation conveyances.
CDC recommends that individuals who wear glasses find a mask that fits closely over their nose or has a nose wire to help reduce fogging and consider using an antifogging spray.
Transit agencies should work with drivers on mask fit to reduce fogging.
In certain circumstances, where this issue cannot be resolved, the CDC Order provides for exemptions to ensure workplace safety and safe operation of the transit vehicle.
If transit agencies have mobile ticketing, are they required to provide notice of the requirement in the app?
No.
Transit agencies are not required to provide notice of the requirement on their app, though it is a good practice to do so.
The TSA Security Directive does require that, at a minimum, transit agencies provide prominent and adequate public notice of the mask requirement at the time the conveyance departs its location after boarding passengers.
The notice must include the following statements:
Federal law requires wearing a mask while on the conveyance and failure to comply may result in denial of boarding or removal; and
Refusing to wear a mask is a violation of federal law; passengers may be subject to penalties under federal law.
The CDC Order requires conveyance operators and transportation hub operators to use their best efforts to ensure that persons wear masks while boarding and disembarking a conveyance, for the duration of a trip, and within a transportation hub.
Best efforts could include advance notifications on digital platforms, such as on apps, websites, or email; posted signage in multiple languages with illustrations; printing the requirement on tickets; and other methods.
Best efforts also should include advance notifications in languages other than English consistent with the transit agencys Title VI program, and in accessible formats for persons with disabilities.
Are transit agencies required to notify passengers of penalties for non-compliance? If so, what information must transit agencies provide?
Yes.
The TSA Security Directive states that, at a minimum, public notice must include the following statements:
Federal law requires wearing a mask while on the conveyance and failure to comply may result in denial of boarding or removal; and
Refusing to wear a mask is a violation of federal law; passengers may be subject to penalties under federal law.
Does the exemption from the mask-wearing requirement for disability-related reasons apply to transit personnel?
Yes.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Order exempts from the mask requirement people with disabilities who cannot wear a mask, or cannot safely wear a mask, because of their disability, as defined by the Americans with Disabilities Act (42 USAC.
 12101, et seq.
).
This narrow exemption, to be granted in very limited circumstances, applies not only to transit passengers, but also to transit personnel and all other individuals while on a conveyance or at a transportation hub conducting transit operations.
As with exemption requests from the public, agencies may impose requirements, or conditions of carriage, on persons requesting an exemption from the requirement to wear a mask, including medical consultation by a third party, medical documentation by a licensed medical provider, and/or other information as determined by the owner/operator per the TSA Security Directive.
Also, transit agencies may need to address requests from transit personnel for reasonable accommodation under the ADA.
FTA encourages transit agencies to review the CDCs guidance to Bus Transit Operators, Rail Transit Operators, and Transit Station Workers, as well as Guidance for Wearing Masks.
Are transit operators required to wear masks when there are no passengers on the vehicle?
Yes, except for operators of transit vehicles that are commercial vehicles, as defined in 49 CFR  390.5.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) provides an exemption for such commercial motor vehicles, when the operator is the sole occupant of the vehicle.
For transit vehicles that meet this regulatory definition of a commercial motor vehicle (including that the vehicle is used on a highway in interstate commerce), the operator is not required to wear a mask when there are no passengers on the vehicle, but must put a mask on prior to any passenger boarding the vehicle.
For all other transit vehicles, the operator must wear a mask when there are no passengers on the vehicle.
Are bus stops without shelters or benches considered transportation hubs?
Yes.
The CDC Order defines a transportation hub as any location where people gather to await, board, or disembark public transportation.
This includes bus stops with or without shelters or benches.
Federal Railroad Administration (FRA)
Are both passenger and freight train operators and rail employees covered by the mask mandates?
Yes, both passenger and freight train operators and rail employees are subject to Executive Order 13998 and the CDCs Order requiring masks during rail transportation.
Who should I contact if I have questions about the face mask requirement for railroads?
Please submit your questions about the implementation for railroads to RailroadsMaskup@dot.gov.
Does the mandate require mask wearing by employees in railroad yard offices, rail facilities, rail maintenance facilities, vans hauling crews, or occupied engines?
The Order of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC Order) broadly requires employees to wear masks in conveyances and transportation hubs.
This applies to railroad terminals, yards, storage facilities, yard offices, crew rooms, maintenance shops, and other areas regularly occupied by railroad personnel.
Masks are also required in vans hauling crews and occupied engines.
The CDC Order broadly requires persons to wear masks in such settings and applies in both passenger and freight rail facilities.
See CDC FAQs explaining that employees at transportation hubs must wear a mask while on the premises of a transportation hub unless they are the only person in the work area, such as in private offices, private hangars at airports, or in railroad yards (available at: https://www.
cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/travelers/face-masks-public-transportation.
html).
Although wearing a mask is required as outlined above and critical to stop the spread of COVID-19, the CDC Order specifically exempts situations involving commercial truck drivers who are the sole occupants of the vehicle.
86 FR 8025, 8028 (Feb.
3, 2021).
Similarly, a railroad employee who is the sole occupant of a vehicle, locomotive cab, or hi-rail truck, would have flexibility through company policy or employee discretion to choose not to wear a mask.
Moreover, per the CDC Order, persons for whom wearing a mask would create a risk to workplace health, safety, or job duty as determined by the relevant workplace safety guidelines or federal regulations are not required to wear a mask.
Additionally, note that the Occupational Safety and Health Administration issued guidance, Protecting Workers: Guidance on Mitigating and Preventing the Spread of COVID-19 in the Workplace (dated January 29, 2021), to help identify risks of being exposed to COVID-19 in workplace settings and to determine any appropriate control measures to implement, which could be informative to the use of masks in rail offices and facilities.
Does the mandate require mask wearing by railroad employees at all times or only when such employees cannot maintain social distance?
The Order of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC Order) broadly requires employees to wear masks in conveyances and transportation hubs.
This applies to railroad terminals, yards, storage facilities, yard offices, crew rooms, maintenance shops, and other areas regularly occupied by railroad personnel.
Masks are also required in vans hauling crews and occupied engines.
The CDC Order broadly requires persons to wear masks in such settings and applies in both passenger and freight rail facilities.
See CDC FAQs explaining that employees at transportation hubs must wear a mask while on the premises of a transportation hub unless they are the only person in the work area, such as in private offices, private hangars at airports, or in railroad yards (available at: https://www.
cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/travelers/face-masks-public-transportation.
html).
Masks are required at all times, aside from the limited exceptions as outlined in the CDC Order (e.
g.
, while eating, drinking, or taking medication, for brief periods).
Although wearing a mask is required as outlined above and critical to stop the spread of COVID-19, the CDC Order specifically exempts situations involving commercial truck drivers who are the sole occupants of the vehicle.
86 FR 8025, 8028 (Feb.
3, 2021).
Similarly, a railroad employee who is the sole occupant of a vehicle, locomotive cab, or hi-rail truck, or a railroad employee performing duties outdoors and not in proximity to any other persons (e.
g.
, a railroad employee performing a train or track inspection outdoors and far from any other persons), would have flexibility through company policy or employee discretion to choose not to wear a mask.
Moreover, per the CDC Order, persons for whom wearing a mask would create a risk to workplace health, safety, or job duty as determined by the relevant workplace safety guidelines or federal regulations are not required to wear a mask.
Additionally, note that the Occupational Safety and Health Administration issued guidance, Protecting Workers: Guidance on Mitigating and Preventing the Spread of COVID-19 in the Workplace (dated January 29, 2021), to help identify risks of being exposed to COVID-19 in workplace settings and to determine any appropriate control measures to implement, which could be informative to the use of masks in rail offices and facilities.
I am a locomotive engineer at a major freight railroad.
Does FRAs Emergency Order apply to me?
Yes.
FRAs Emergency Order applies to all railroad personnel in or on a freight train, locomotive, high-rail vehicle, or crew transportation vehicle, or in a railroad transportation facility, terminal, yard, storage facility, yard office, crew room, maintenance shop, and other areas regularly occupied by railroad personnel when engaged in railroad operations.
If I am a crew member alone in a locomotive cab, does FRAs Emergency Order require me to wear a mask?
No.
If a crew member (or any other railroad personnel) is alone in an enclosed locomotive cab, FRAs Emergency Order does not require wearing a mask.
Wearing a mask is required, however, if there is another person inside the cab (e.
g.
, if a locomotive engineer and conductor are both in the cab).
Railroad personnel alone in a locomotive cab should therefore have a mask available to put on when required.
Do workers at transportation hubs need to wear masks at all times inside or only when they cannot socially distance?
Per the January 29, 2021, Order of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (and the CDCs responses to Frequently Asked Questions), employees must wear a mask while on the premises of a transportation hub.
However, CDC has posted guidance to their website that masks do not need to be worn if a worker is the only person in the work area, which might occur in private offices or in railroad yards and other outdoor spaces.
If another person enters the work area, or the employee leaves the work area and enters another area where others might be located, the employee must wear a mask.
If the nature of the work area is such that other persons are likely to be located there and are allowed to enter or leave unannounced, then a mask must be worn at all times.
Under CDCs Order, employees do not need to wear a mask if wearing one would create a risk to workplace health, safety, or job duty as determined by the relevant workplace safety guidelines or federal regulations.
An employee is also exempted if the employee has a disability and cannot wear a mask, or cannot safely wear a mask, because of the disability as defined by the Americans with Disabilities Act (42 USAC.
12101 et seq.
).
Does FRAs Emergency Order cover personnel performing duties outdoors and not in proximity to any other persons?
No.
Railroad personnel performing duties outdoors and not in proximity to any other persons (e.
g.
, a railroad employee performing a train or track inspection outdoors and far from any other persons) would have flexibility through company policy or employee discretion to choose not to wear a mask.
Does FRAs Emergency Order cover railroad personnel in corporate office buildings, such as railroad headquarters?
No.
FRAs Emergency Order does not cover personnel in corporate office buildings, such as railroad headquarters.
However, mask orders from States, localities, or other jurisdictions may apply to these spaces.
Wearing a mask is encouraged even if the railroad personnel are not specifically covered by the Emergency Order.
Does FRAs Emergency Order cover personnel in a railroad yard office?  If so, are masks required for personnel inside a private office with a closed door?
Yes.
Personnel in a railroad yard office, such as a depot, would be covered by the Emergency Order.
If a person in a railroad yard office is alone in a private office with the door closed, a mask would not be required.
If another person enters the private office, or the person leaves the office and enters another area where others may be located, the individual must wear a mask.
Do passengers or persons (including railroad personnel) in or on a passenger train or in public areas of passenger railroad transportation hubs or facilities have to wear a mask?
Yes.
Per the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) Security Directive (SD) 1582/84-21-01, Security Measures  Face Mask Requirements, such passengers or persons (including railroad personnel) are required to wear a mask.
Is a railroad carrier that fails to comply with FRAs Emergency Order subject to enforcement action?
Yes.
Any violation of FRAs Emergency Order may subject the railroad carrier committing the violation to a civil penalty of up to $118,826 for each day the violation continues.
49 USAC.
21301 and 86 FR 1751 (Jan.
11, 2021).
FRA may, through the Attorney General, also seek injunctive relief to enforce the Emergency Order.
49 USAC.
20112.
For information about enforcement action for violations of TSAs Security Directives, please email TSA-Surface@tsa.
dhs.gov.
Can a railroad employee be subject to enforcement action personally for failure to comply with FRAs Emergency Order?
Yes.
Any individual (railroad personnel) who willfully violates a provision stated in FRAs Emergency Order is subject to civil penalties under 49 USAC.
21301.
In addition, any individual (railroad personnel) whose violation of the Emergency Order demonstrates the individuals unfitness for safety-sensitive service may be removed from safety-sensitive service on the railroad under 49 USAC.
20111.
For information about enforcement action for violations of TSAs Security Directives, please email TSA-Surface@tsa.
dhs.gov.
For how long is FRAs Emergency Order in effect?
FRAs Emergency Order is in effect until: (1) the CDC Order is modified in relevant part or rescinded based on specific public health or other considerations; (2) the USA Secretary of Health and Human Services rescinds the determination that a public health emergency exists; or (3) it is rescinded by FRA.
Does FRAs Emergency Order cover other individuals (other than passengers) who could be present on railroad property, but are not involved in railroad operations, such as invited guests, government officials, or customers?
No.
FRAs Emergency Order does not specifically apply to persons who are not involved in railroad operations, such as invited guests, government officials, or customers.
FRA also notes that while FRAs Emergency Order does not cover these persons, mask orders from States, localities, or other jurisdictions, including the CDC Order or TSA SD, may apply.
Does FRAs Emergency Order cover other individuals (other than passengers) who could be present on railroad property, but are not involved in railroad operations, such as trespassers?
No.
FRAs Emergency Order does not apply to trespassers, as they are not railroad personnel.
However, while FRAs Emergency Order does not cover trespassers, mask orders from States, localities, or other jurisdictions, including the CDC Order or TSA SD, may apply.
Is a railroad required to supply face masks to comply with FRAs Emergency Order?
No.
However, it is recommended that the railroad provide railroad personnel with face masks to achieve compliance.
By when must a railroad comply with the requirement to have written procedures fully implementing FRAs Emergency Order?
Although FRAs Emergency Order does not have a deadline for when a railroad must establish written procedures implementing the Order, FRA expects railroads to do so within a reasonable amount of time.
Can a railroad and contractor agree that the contractor is responsible for ensuring that its employees comply with FRAs Emergency Order and the contractors written procedures for implementing the order?
While a railroad and its contractor may agree that the contractor has primary responsibility for ensuring the contractors employees comply with the Emergency Order (including the contractors written procedures), a railroad retains responsibility for ensuring that contractor employees on the railroads property comply with the Emergency Order.
How does FRA plan to enforce the Emergency Order?
FRA will enforce the Emergency Order in the same manner it enforces all federal railroad safety requirements.
For example, FRA inspectors will note observed instances of non-compliance during inspections, and FRA may take enforcement action (e.
g.
, issue warnings or civil penalties) based on non-compliance.
Does a railroad have to comply with FRAs Emergency Order if all of its personnel have received a COVID-19 vaccine and waited the appropriate time for the vaccine to be effective?
Yes.
FRAs Emergency Order explains that, for reasons described in the CDC Order, it applies to railroad personnel, including those who have received a COVID-19 vaccine and/or who have recovered from COVID-19.
See 86 FR 8029.
Does FRAs Emergency Order apply to railroad personnel working with a customer on the customers property?
Yes.
Railroad carriers must require their personnel to wear a mask while engaged in railroad operations.
Railroad personnel therefore would be required to comply with the Emergency Order to the same extent as when they are on railroad property, if they perform railroad operations while working with a customer on the customers property.
Does FRAs Emergency Order apply to railroads operating in States without a mask mandate?
Yes.
FRAs Emergency Order applies to railroads and railroad operations under FRAs jurisdiction in every State; whether a State relaxes, revokes, or has no mask requirements, FRAs Emergency Order remains in effect.
If an employee refuses to wear a mask as required by FRAs Emergency Order, what steps does a railroad need to (or should) take to address this with the employee?
A railroad may:
Educate the employee on the need to wear a mask (for example, the railroad may explain the public health benefit and that it is a Federal requirement).
If the employee continues to refuse, remove the employee from service.
Reinstate the employee into service as soon as the employee agrees to wear a mask in compliance with FRAs Emergency Order.
If an employees refusal to wear a mask is related to a disability, temporarily remove the employee from service while the railroad determines if reasonable accommodation under the Americans with Disabilities Act is possible or an exemption is granted.
See CDC guidance at https://www.
cdc.gov/quarantine/masks/mask-travel-guidance.
html.
The purpose of removing an employee from service is to ensure compliance with the Emergency Order, not to take punitive action.
FRA also expects almost all employees will agree to wear a mask without having to be removed from service.
If a railroad employee willfully violates a provision stated in FRAs Emergency Order, the railroad employee is subject to civil penalties under 49 USAC.
21301.
In addition, any individual (railroad personnel) whose violation of the Emergency Order demonstrates the individuals unfitness for safety-sensitive service may be removed from safety-sensitive service on the railroad under 49 USAC.
20111.
Do the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Interim Public Health Recommendations for Fully Vaccinated People, issued on April 27, 2021, affect FRAs Emergency Order requiring face mask use in railroad operations?
No.
On April 27, 2021, the CDC issued Interim Public Health Recommendations for Fully Vaccinated People, stating that fully vaccinated people no longer need to wear a mask outdoors, except in certain crowded settings and venues.
However, the CDC emphasized that fully vaccinated people should continue to take precautions in indoor public settings, including wearing a well-fitted mask, following guidance issued by individual employers, and following CDC and health department travel requirements and recommendations.
In addition, the CDC has not modified its Order requiring persons to wear masks while on conveyances and at transportation hubs, nor modified its related guidance on the Order.
The CDC continues to state that masks are required on trains and other forms of public transportation traveling into, within, or out of the United States and in USA transportation hubs such as train stations.
Accordingly, there are no changes to FRAs Emergency Order requiring face mask use in railroad operations at this time.
FRA also notes that its Emergency Order provides flexibility to railroad personnel performing duties outdoors who are not in proximity to any other persons (e.
g.
, a railroad employee performing a train or track inspection outdoors and far from any other persons).
Such railroad personnel have the option not to wear a mask, when consistent with company policy.
Federal Motor CarrierSafety Administration (FMCSA)
Do drivers still need a mask if they are behind plexiglass?
A driver is required to wear a mask, even if a driver of a conveyance is segregated from passengers by plexiglass.
Plexiglass shields and other fixed barriers on conveyances do not provide adequate protection to limit the spread of COVID-19.
Do passengers need to wear a double mask?
No, two masks are not required under the CDC Order.
Mask means a material covering the nose and mouth of the wearer and secured to the head, including with ties or ear loops.
Masks do not include face shields.
CDC guidance for acceptable masks is available here.
May passengers remove masks when they are in the restroom on a conveyance or at a transportation hub?
No, there is no exception for passengers who are in a restroom.
A passenger is required to wear a mask the entire time while they are on the conveyance or at a transportation hub, other than those exceptions specified in the CDC Order.
Are bus companies required to provide riders with masks?
No, it is the responsibility of the passenger to have a mask prior to attempting to board a conveyance.
Boarding or entry will be denied if a passenger is not wearing a mask.
A bus company may provide masks for free, or for a charge.
What if a passenger loses their mask, or the mask gets damaged after the passenger is already on board?
All passengers and carriers are responsible for making their best efforts to comply.
A good practice for all passengers would be to have a spare mask, and as specified above a bus company may have spare masks available, for free or for a charge, for such situations.
Who should I contact if I have questions about the face mask requirement for motor carriers?
Please submit your questions about implementation for motor carriers to FMCSAMaskUp@dot.gov.
Are school bus operators and their passengers required to wear masks?
Yes, school bus operators, including operations by public school districts, and their passengers are required to wear masks as defined by the Order issued by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).
The CDC Order provides limited exemptions to the mask requirement for certain small categories of individuals, including: children under the age of 2; persons with disabilities who cannot wear a mask, or cannot safely wear a mask because of a disability as defined by the Americans with Disabilities Act (42 USAC.
12101 et seq.
); and persons for whom wearing a mask would create a risk to workplace health, safety, or job duty.
In an FAQ concerning the CDC Order, the CDC states that passengers and drivers on school buses must wear a mask unless the driver is the only person on the bus.
This requirement applies to all school buses whether publicly or privately owned.
Background
The Presidents Executive Order 13998, Promoting COVID-19 Safety in Domestic and International Travel, directs the CDC and the heads of Agencies to take action, to the extent appropriate and consistent with applicable law, to require masks to be worn in compliance with CDC requirements when traveling in or on various modes of transportation.
The CDC subsequently issued an Order, Order under Section 361 of the Public Health Service Act (42 USAC.
264) and 42 Code of Federal Regulations 70.2, 71.31(b), 71.32(b) (CDC Order), under its existing statutory and regulatory authority, requiring individuals to properly wear masks, unless otherwise exempted, when boarding, disembarking, and traveling on any conveyance, as defined in the CDC Order, to prevent the spread of the virus that causes COVID-19.
Similarly, the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) issued Security Directive No.
SD 1582/84-21-01 (TSA Security Directive), applicable to certain surface transportation modes, to implement Executive Order 13998 and enforce the CDC Order.
Both the CDC Order and the TSA Security Directive became effective on February 1, 2021.
The CDC Order, consistent with the mandate in Executive Order 13998 to implement additional measures to protect public health in domestic travel, requires a mask to be worn by any operator or passenger traveling on a conveyance within the United States unless otherwise exempted.
Conveyances include all road vehicles (subject to certain exceptions, e.
g.
, for private conveyances operated solely for personal, non-commercial use), including school buses.
[1]
[1] Executive Order 13998 directs the heads of Agencies to require masks, to the extent appropriate and consistent with applicable law, in or on all forms of public transportation as defined in 49 USAC.
 5302.
School bus operations are specifically excepted from the statutory definition of public transportation.
The TSA Security Directive, likewise, does not include school bus operations in its mask mandate.
However, as explained above, the CDC Order applies to school buses.
Are passengers required to wear masks if bus service is not for-hire, inter-city fixed-route (i.
e.
, charter service, irregular route, private passenger carriers)?
Yes, unless otherwise exempted, passengers are generally required to wear masks when traveling on any bus into or within the United States.
There are limited exemptions to the mask mandate for specific categories of persons, such as a child under the age of 2 years, described in the CDC Order.
Background
The Presidents Executive Order 13998, Promoting COVID-19 Safety in Domestic and International Travel, directs the CDC and the heads of Agencies to take action, to the extent appropriate and consistent with applicable law, to require masks to be worn in compliance with CDC requirements when traveling on intercity buses, or on any other modes of public transportation.
The CDC issued an Order (CDC Order) under its existing statutory and regulatory authority, requiring travelers to properly wear masks when traveling on any conveyance to prevent the spread of the virus that causes COVID-19.
Similarly, the TSA issued Security Directive No.
SD 1582/84-21-01 (TSA Security Directive) applicable to certain surface transportation modes to implement Executive Order 13998 and enforce the CDC Order.
Both the CDC Order and the TSA Security Directive became effective on February 1, 2021.
The CDC Order, consistent with the mandate in Executive Order 13998 to implement additional measures to protect public health in domestic travel, requires a mask to be worn by any operator or passenger traveling on a conveyance within the United States, unless otherwise exempted.
Conveyances include all road vehicles (subject to certain exceptions, e.
g.
, for private conveyances operated solely for personal, non-commercial use), including charter buses, buses operating on irregular routes, and buses operated by private motor carriers of passengers.
[2]
[2] Executive Order 13998 directs the heads of Agencies to require masks, to the extent appropriate and consistent with applicable law, in or on all forms of public transportation, as defined in 49 USAC.
 5302.
Charter bus operations are specifically excepted from the statutory definition of public transportation.
The TSA Security Directive, likewise, does not include charter bus operations in its mask mandate.
However, as explained above, the CDC Order applies to charter bus operations.
What should a bus driver do with a non-compliant passenger who refuses to wear a mask and proceeds to cause a disturbance?
Pursuant to the CDC Order, bus drivers should either refuse to board or seek to disembark as soon as safely possible any passenger who refuses to wear a mask, unless otherwise exempted from the mask requirement.
If the passenger continues to cause a disturbance before the bus driver can safely disembark the individual(s), the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA) recommends following company policy related to de-escalation and coordination with law enforcement.
If a company does not have a policy for handling disruptive passengers, FMCSA recommends each company develop a policy and provide training to implement the policy.
The training should include de-escalation techniques to reduce the disruption; when to call law enforcement for assistance; knowledge and skills needed to reduce the likelihood of assaults occurring; the definition and prevention of assault, including discussing the types of incidents that could be considered assault and recognizing key vulnerability factors; prevention strategies focusing on communication and response skills; effective communication with limited English proficient individuals; and the value of reporting incidents.
FMCSA re-emphasizes that bus companies should include the refusal of a passenger to wear a mask in existing company policies for handling disruptive passengers to provide clarity for drivers on how to handle these situations.
Company policies should also include considerations regarding when to call law enforcement, which may ultimately be necessary to enforce the mask mandate.
In addition, the TSA Security Directive, which applies to an over-the-road bus operating in fixed route service (among other types of transportation service), includes the following reporting requirement: If an individuals refusal to comply with the mask requirement constitutes a significant security concern, the owner/operator must report the incident to the Transportation Security Operations Center (TSOC) at 1-866-615-5150 or 1-703-563-3240 in accordance with 49 CFR 1570.203.
 If there is an immediate threat, the first priority is to notify and work with first responders before contacting TSOC to provide information about the incident.
Drivers should contact federal law enforcement or state and local law enforcement if assistance is required to enforce the mask mandate, regardless of company policy.
What should drivers do if their employer requires them to transport passengers without masks and those passengers are not exempted from the mandate in the CDC Order or TSA Directive?
Drivers who believe their company is preventing them from enforcing the mask mandates may be covered by the whistleblower protection provisions in 49 USAC.
 31105.
Drivers may refuse to operate a vehicle if required by their company to transport passengers without masks.
Whistleblower protection prohibits the employer from retaliating against drivers who exercise their rights under the statute.
Go to www.
whistleblowers.gov for further information about how to file a complaint.
If you choose to inform FMCSA, send an email to FMCSAMaskUp@dot.gov.
Does the CDC Order apply to team truck drivers while they are in the cab of the truck?
Team drivers are not required to wear a mask in the cab of a commercial motor vehicle (CMV) if the vehicle occupants are individuals who all live in the same household and are the only persons in the vehicle.
The CDC recently issued guidance expanding the exemption for solo drivers to include driving teams from the same household.
Last updated: Wednesday, May 12, 2021