https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/businessman-sentenced-foreign-bribery-and-money-laundering-scheme-involving-petroecuador
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, January 28, 2021
Businessman Sentenced for Foreign Bribery and Money Laundering Scheme Involving PetroEcuador Officials
An Ecuadorian businessman living in Miami was sentenced today to 35 months in prison for his role in a $4.4 million bribery and money laundering scheme that funneled bribes to then-public officials of Empresa Pblica de Hidrocarburos del Ecuador (PetroEcuador), the state-owned and state-controlled oil company of Ecuador.
Nicholas L.
McQuaid, Acting Assistant Attorney General of the Justice Departments Criminal Division and George L.
Piro, Special Agent in Charge of the FBIs Miami Field Office made the announcement.
According to his plea, Armengol Alfonso Cevallos Diaz, 58, admitted that from 2012 through 2015 he conspired to solicit, intermediate, and pay bribes of $4.4 million from an oil services company and companies associated with or controlled by Cevallos to PetroEcuador officials by using USA-based companies and USA-based bank accounts in order to obtain and retain business from PetroEcuador.
Cevallos also admitted to conspiring to conceal and promote the bribe scheme by laundering the funds through Miami-based shell companies and bank accounts that were used to acquire properties in the Miami area for the benefit of certain PetroEcuador officials.
Cevallos is the latest individual to be sentenced in the Justice Departments ongoing investigation into bribery and money laundering involving PetroEcuador.
The individuals prosecuted include former PetroEcuador officials who received and concealed the bribe payments, businessmen and contractors who paid the bribes to obtain contracts from PetroEcuador, and intermediaries who enabled and facilitated the bribery through the use of USA and offshore companies and bank accounts.
The FBIs International Corruption Squad in Miami is investigating the case.
Trial Attorneys Jonathan Robell and Katherine Raut of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section and Trial Attorney Randall Warden of the Criminal Divisions Money Laundering and Asset Recovery Section (MLARS) prosecuted the case.
IRS-Criminal Investigation, USA Immigration and Customs Enforcements Homeland Security Investigations, the USA Marshals Service and the Justice Departments Office of International Affairs provided significant assistance in this case, as have public authorities in, among other countries, Ecuador and Panama.
MLARSs Bank Integrity Unit investigates and prosecutes banks and other financial institutions, including their officers, managers, and employees, whose actions threaten the integrity of the individual institution or the wider financial system.
The Fraud Section is responsible for investigating and prosecuting all Foreign Corruption Practices Act (FCPA) matters.
Additional information about the Justice Departments FCPA enforcement efforts can be found at www.
justice.gov/criminal/fraud/fcpa.
Topic(s):Financial FraudForeign CorruptionComponent(s):Criminal DivisionCriminal - Criminal Fraud SectionCriminal - Money Laundering and Asset Recovery SectionCriminal - Office of International AffairsFederal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)Press Release Number:21-107
Updated January 28, 2021