https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/social-media-influencer-charged-election-interference-stemming-voter-disinformation-campaign
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, January 27, 2021
Social Media Influencer Charged with Election Interference Stemming from Voter Disinformation Campaign
Defendant Unlawfully Used Social Media to Deprive Individuals of Their Right to Vote
A Florida man was arrested this morning on charges of conspiring with others in advance of the 2016 USA Presidential Election to use various social media platforms to disseminate misinformation designed to deprive individuals of their constitutional right to vote.
Douglass Mackey, aka Ricky Vaughn, 31, of West Palm Beach, was charged by criminal complaint in the Eastern District of New York.
He was taken into custody this morning in West Palm Beach and made his initial appearance before USA Magistrate JudgeBruce E.
Reinhart of the Southern District of Florida.
According to the allegations in the complaint, the defendant exploited a social media platform to infringe one the of most basic and sacred rights guaranteed by the Constitution: the right to vote, said Nicholas L.
McQuaid, Acting Assistant Attorney General of the Justice Departments Criminal Division.
This complaintunderscores the departments commitment to investigating and prosecuting those who would undermine citizens voting rights.

There is no place in public discourse for lies and misinformation to defraud citizens of their right to vote, said Seth D.
DuCharme, Acting USA Attorney for the Eastern District of New York.
With Mackeys arrest, we serve notice that those who would subvert the democratic process in this manner cannot rely on the cloak of Internet anonymity to evade responsibility for their crimes.
They will be investigated, caught and prosecuted to the full extent of the law.

Protecting every American citizens right to cast a legitimate vote is a key to the success of our republic, said William F.
Sweeney Jr.
, Assistant Director in Charge of the FBIs New York Field Office.
What Mackey allegedly did to interfere with this process  by soliciting voters to cast their ballots via text  amounted to nothing short of vote theft.
It is illegal behavior and contributes to the erosion of the publics trust in our electoral processes.
He may have been a powerful social media influencer at the time, but a quick Internet search of his name today will reveal an entirely different story.

The complaint alleges that in 2016, Mackey established an audience on Twitter with approximately 58,000 followers.
A February 2016 analysis by the MIT Media Lab ranked Mackey as the 107th most important influencer of the then-upcoming Election, ranking his account above outlets and individuals such as NBC News (#114), Stephen Colbert (#119) and Newt Gingrich (#141).
As alleged in the complaint, between September 2016 and November 2016, in the lead up to the Nov.
8, 2016, USA Presidential Election, Mackey conspired with others to use social media platforms, including Twitter, to disseminate fraudulent messages designed to encourage supporters of one of the presidential candidates (the Candidate) to vote via text message or social media, a legally invalid method of voting.
For example, on Nov.
1, 2016, Mackey allegedly tweeted an image that featured an African American woman standing in front of an African Americans for [the Candidate] sign.
The image included the following text: Avoid the Line.
Vote from Home.
Text [Candidates first name] to 59925[.
] Vote for [the Candidate] and be a part of history.
 The fine print at the bottom of the image stated: Must be 18 or older to vote.
One vote per person.
Must be a legal citizen of the United States.
Voting by text not available in Guam, Puerto Rico, Alaska or Hawaii.
Paid for by [Candidate] for President 2016.

The tweet included the typed hashtags #Go [Candidate] and another slogan frequently used by the Candidate.
On or about and before Election Day 2016, at least 4,900 unique telephone numbers texted [Candidates first name] or some derivative to the 59925 text number, which was used in multiple deceptive campaign images tweeted by the defendant and his co-conspirators.
The charges in the complaint are allegations, and the defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty.
Assistant USA Attorneys Erik Paulsen and Nathan Reilly of the Eastern District of New York, and Trial Attorney James Mann of the Criminal Divisions Public Integrity Section are prosecuting the case.
Attachment(s): Download Mackey ComplaintComponent(s):Criminal DivisionCriminal - Public Integrity SectionFederal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)USAO - New York, EasternPress Release Number:21-94
Updated January 27, 2021