https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/member-white-supremacist-prison-gang-guilty-violent-crime-aid-racketeering
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, January 26, 2021
Member of White Supremacist Prison Gang Guilty of Violent Crime in Aid of Racketeering
A Texas man pleaded guilty today to violent gang-related activities in the Eastern District of Texas.
According to information presented in court and contained in court filings, Glynnwood Derrick, 46, of Texarkana, joined the Aryan Circle (AC) while in state prison in Texas in 2000, and received his patch, or gang tattoo, in 2004 while serving a sentence in federal prison.
Derrick held various ranks within the organization over the years, including the ranks of Captain and Major.
Derrick attended church, or gang meetings, on numerous occasions at the homes of other AC members.
The AC is a violent, white supremacist organization that operates inside federal prisons across the country and outside prisons in states including Texas, Arkansas, Louisiana, and Missouri.
The AC enforces its rules and promotes discipline among its members, prospects and associates through murder, attempted murder, assault, and threats against those who violate the rules or pose a threat to the organization.
Members, and oftentimes associates, are required to follow the orders of higher-ranking members without question.
Prior to Oct.
2, 2016, AC members learned that an AC member wanted to switch his gang affiliation, or patch over, from the AC to a different gang.
AC members were ordered to attack the former member in order to X him, or attack and remove him from the gang, because it violated the ACs rules to join another organization.
A meeting was held at an AC members home in the Tyler, Texas area where AC members planned the logistics of the assault.
On Oct.
2, 2016, Derrick and other AC members met at a park near Tyler, Texas, where they had planned to attack the former member, who was also present.
Multiple AC members violently beat the victim, including kicking the victim in the head while he was on the ground.
This attack resulted in the victim seeking medical care.
Derrick will be sentenced at a date to be determined.
Nicholas L.
McQuaid, Acting Assistant Attorney General of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, and Nicholas J.
Ganjei, Acting USA Attorney for the Eastern District of Texas, made the announcement.
This case is part of a larger investigation into the Aryan Circle by an Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force (OCDETF) consisting of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives; Drug Enforcement Administration; Federal Bureau of Prisons; Texas Department of Public Safety; Houston Police Department-Gang Division; Montgomery County (TX) Precinct One Constables Office; USA Immigration and Customs Enforcements Homeland Security Investigations; Texas Department of Criminal Justice; New Jersey Department of Corrections-Special Investigations Division; Indiana State Police; Fort Smith (AR) Police Department; Arkansas Department of Corrections; Arnold (MO) Police Department; Jefferson County (MO) Sheriffs Department; St.
Louis Metropolitan Police Department; St.
Louis County (MO) Police Department; Indiana Department of Corrections; Carrollton (TX) Police Department; Waller (TX) Police Department; Montgomery County (TX) Sheriffs Office; Travis County (TX) Sheriffs Office; Tarrant County (TX) Sheriffs Office; Evangeline Parish (LA) Sheriffs Office; Smith County (TX) Sheriffs Office; McCurtain County (OK) Sheriffs Office; Montgomery County (TX) District Attorneys Office; Liberty County (TX) District Attorneys Office; Harris County (TX) District Attorneys Office; Mercer County (NJ) District Attorneys Office; Evangeline Parish (LA) District Attorneys Office; and the Sebastian County (AR) District Attorneys Office.
It is being prosecuted by Trial Attorney Bethany Lipman of the Criminal Divisions Organized Crime and Gang Section and Assistant USA Attorney Christopher Rapp of the Eastern District of Texas.
Topic(s):Violent CrimeComponent(s):Criminal DivisionCriminal - Organized Crime and Gang SectionOrganized Crime Drug Enforcement Task ForcesUSAO - Texas, EasternPress Release Number:21-92
Updated January 26, 2021