https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/texas-man-pleads-guilty-conspiracy-provide-material-support-isis
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Monday, January 25, 2021
Texas Man Pleads Guilty to Conspiracy to Provide Material Support to ISIS
In San Antonio today, 22-year-old Cost resident Jaylyn Christopher Molina, aka Abdur Rahim,admitted to conspiring to provide material support to the designated foreign terrorist organization Islamic State of Iraq and al-Sham/Syria (ISIS), announced Assistant Attorney General for National Security John C.
Demers, USA Attorney for the Western District of Texas Gregg N.
Sofer and FBI Special Agent in Charge of the San Antonio Division Christopher Combs.
Appearing before USA Magistrate Judge Richard Farrer, Molina pleaded guilty toone count of conspiracy to provide material support to ISIS and one count of receiving child pornography.
By pleading guilty, Molina admitted that since May 2019, he conspired with 34-year-old South Carolina resident Kristopher Sean Matthews, aka Ali Jibreel, and others to provide services to ISIS by administering an encrypted, members-only chat group for persons who supported ISIS ideology; by collecting, generating and disseminating pro-ISIS propaganda; by attempting to recruit individuals to join ISIS; and by disseminating bomb-making instructions.
Molina also pleaded guilty to one count of receiving child pornography.
On Sept.
18, 2020, federal authorities executing a search warrant at the defendants residence seized his cell phone, which contained 18 images depicting child pornography.
Molina faces up to 20 years in federal prison on the conspiracy charge and up to 20 years in federal prison on the child pornography charge.
He remains in federal custody pending sentencing.
On Nov.
24, 2020, Matthews pleaded guilty to a conspiracy charge to provide material support to ISIS.
Matthews, who remains in federal custody, faces up to 20 years in federal prison.
Sentencing is scheduled for 10:30 a.
m.
CST on March 4, 2021, before Chief USA District Judge Orlando L.
Garcia in San Antonio.
The San Antonio FBIs Joint Terrorism Task Force (JTTF), with valuable assistance from the San Antonio Police Department, the USA Secret Service and the Gonzalez County Sheriffs Office, investigated this case.
Assistant USA Attorneys Mark Roomberg, William R.
Harris, Eric Fuchs and Tracy Thompson and Justice Department Trial Attorneys George C.
Kraehe and Felice J.
Viti of the National Security Divisions Counterterrorism Section are prosecuting this case.
Topic(s):CounterterrorismNational SecurityComponent(s):Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)National Security Division (NSD)USAO - Texas, WesternPress Release Number:21-89
Updated January 25, 2021