https://www.transportation.gov/briefing-room/safetyfirst/us-department-transportation
USA Department of Transportation
The Mission of the USDOT
To ensure our nation has the safest, most efficient and modern transportation system in the world; that improves the quality of life for all American people and communities, from rural to urban, and increases the productivity and competitiveness of American workers and businesses.
Office of the Secretary
Safety will always be our number one priority.
  Secretary Elaine L.
Chao.
The Office of the Secretary (OST) oversees the formulation of national transportation policy and promotes intermodal transportation.
Other responsibilities range from negotiation and implementation of international transportation agreements, assuring the fitness of US airlines, enforcing airline consumer protection regulations, issuing regulations to prevent alcohol and illegal drug abuse in transportation systems, and preparing transportation legislation.
Emergency Preparedness, Response, and Recovery Information
During emergency situations, DOT will post information related to transportation permits, waivers, and other regulations and authorities that are applicable during an emergency.
Under the National Response Framework, DOT is the primary federal agency for the Emergency Support Function -1 -Transportation (ESF-1).
Secretary Chao on Safety
Autonomous Vehicle Symposium, San Francisco, CA
July 10, 2018
The Departments goal is to encourage the safe deployment and integration of AV technology, while maintaining maximum individual choice and enhanced safety.

USA Department of Transportation Publishes Drug Testing Rule to Enhance Safety While Combating the Opioid Epidemic
November 13, 2017
The ability to test for a broader range of opioids will advance transportation safety significantly and provide another deterrence to opioid abuse, which will better protect the public and ultimately save lives.

USA Secretary of Transportation Elaine L.
Chao Presents Details of USA Drone Integration Pilot Program
November 2, 2017
The Drone pilot program will accelerate the safe integration of drones into our airspace by creating new partnerships between local governments, the FAA, and private drone operators.

DOT Issues Nearly $2.5 Million in Grants to State Entities, Local Communities, and Non-Profit Organizations to Spur Involvement in Pipeline Safety Efforts
October 2, 2017
The grants were issuing today are more than just about protecting pipelines or promoting awareness, its about saving lives.

FMCSA Awards More Than $70 Million in Grants to Enhance Commercial Motor Vehicle Safety
September 28, 2017
Our shared goal of a safer transportation system is a top priority.
These grants will further assist state and local officials in their efforts to prevent commercial motor vehicle crashes and injuries each year, and have the potential to save hundreds of lives.

Safety in Action
DOTModal Information
Aviation
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Temporary Flight Restrictions
FAA Flight Delay Information
FAA Notice to Airmen (NOTAM)
Maritime
Maritime Administration Ready Reserve Force (RRF)
RRF Characteristics Pamphlet
RRF Locations Map
Pipelines and Hazmat
Pipelines and Hazardous Materials Administration (PHMSA) Approvals and Permits
Public Transportation
Federal Transit Administration (FTA) Emergency Management
Federal Transit Administration (FTA) Emergency Relief Manual
Railroads
Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) Emergency Declarations
Roadway and Bridges
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) National Road Closure Information
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) Oversize/OverweightLoad Permits
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) Emergency Relief Program
Trucking and Motor Coaches
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA)Declarations, Waivers, Exemptions and Permits
Promoting Innovation and Competition in Transportation
Automated Driving Systems (ADS): A Vision For Safety 2.0
Automated Driving Systems (ADS) Public Workshop
Successfully showcased AV Truck Platooning Technology (Sept.
13-15, 2017)
Automated Track Inspection Program (ATIP)
ITS Architecture and Standards  Renewal of Memorandum of Cooperation (MoC) with the European Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI)
Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS) Operations
UAS Integration Pilot Program
Testing of Unmanned Aircraft Systems
Human Trafficking
USDOT is working with other USA Government agencies and with transportation stakeholders across the country on human trafficking initiatives.
In November 2012, the Transportation Leaders Against Human Trafficking partnership was launched.
The partnership is an open membership group comprised of transportation and travel industry stakeholders, in order to maximize the transportation industrys collective impact in combating human trafficking.
The partnership identified five key focus areas: Industry leadership, Industry training and education, Policy development, Public awareness, Information sharing and analysis
NATIONAL HUMAN TRAFFICKING RESOURCE CENTER
1-888-3737-888
GET HELP and connect with a service provider in your area
REPORT A TIP with information on potential human trafficking activity
LEARN MORE by requesting training, technical assistance, or resources
Last updated: Wednesday, May 6, 2020