https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/connecticut-man-charged-assaulting-officer-during-us-capitol-breach
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, January 20, 2021
Connecticut Man Charged with Assaulting an Officer During USA Capitol Breach
A Connecticut man was charged yesterday in the USA District Court for the District of Columbia with assaulting an officer during the breach of the USA Capitol grounds on Jan.
6, 2021.
He will be presented in USA District Court for the Southern District of New York today, before appearing in Washington D.
C.
Patrick Edward McCaughey III was charged with assaulting, resisting, or impeding certain officers or employees; civil disorder; entering restricted building or grounds; and violent entry or disorderly conduct.
The vicious attack on Officer Hodges was abhorrent and quintessentially un-American, said Acting USA Attorney Michael R.
Sherwin.
It is my pledge that anyone involved in violent attacks on law enforcement at the USA Capitol on January 6will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law.
McCaugheys alleged actions were an assault on Officer Hodges, the Capitol, and the rule of law itself.

Even after days of seeing so many shocking and horrific scenes from the siege on the USA Capitol, the savage beating of D.
C.
Metropolitan Police Officer Hodges stands out for the perpetrators blatant disregard for human life, said Steven M.
DAntuono, Assistant Director in Charge of the FBI Washington Field Office.
Patrick McCaugheys actions were violent, barbaric, and completely out of control.
The FBI will relentlessly pursue individuals who took part in this activity and we will continue our unwavering commitment to ensure all those responsible for assaults on law enforcement officers are brought to justice.

As alleged in the charging documents, on Jan.
6, 2021, a video posted to YouTube captured a large group of rioters attempting to break through the line of uniformed law enforcement officers who were in place to prevent rioters from entering the lower west terrace door of the USA Capitol.
In the front line of rioters, an individual, who has subsequently been identified as McCaughey can be seen using a clear police riot shield to physically push against the left side of an officers body.
The officer was pinned between the clear police riot shield being held by McCaughey and the lower west terrace door.
The officer appeared to be loudly crying out in pain.
As the officer was being pinned to the door by McCaughey, a separate rioter was violently ripping off the officers gas mask, exposing the officers bloodied mouth.
As McCaughey was using the riot shield to push against the officer, numerous other rioters behind and around McCaughey appeared to add to the weight against the officer.
The case is being prosecuted by Assistant USA Attorneys Melissa Jackson and Jocelyn Bond of the District of Columbia USA Attorneys Office, and Trial Attorney Rebecca Magnone of the National Security Division of the Department of Justice.
Valuable assistance was provided by the USA Attorneys Office for the Southern District of New York.
The case is being investigated by the FBIs Washington Field Office, with assistance by the FBIs New Haven and New York Field Offices, the USA Capitol Police Department, and the Metropolitan Police Department.
The ATF and FBI continue to urge the public to report suspected use of explosive devices, or violent, destructive acts associated with the recent unrest.
Anyone with information can call 1-888-ATF-TIPS (1-888-283-8477), emailATFTips@atf.govor submit information anonymously viaReportIt.
com.
The FBI is looking for individuals who may have incited or promoted violence of any kind.
Anyone with digital material or tips can call 1-800-CALL-FBI (800-225-5324) or submit images or videos atfbi.gov/USCapitol.
The charges contained in the complaint are allegations.
The defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law.
Attachment(s): Download McCaughey Complaint.
pdf Download McCaughey Affidavit.
pdfTopic(s):National SecurityComponent(s):National Security Division (NSD)USAO - District of ColumbiaPress Release Number:21-79
Updated January 20, 2021