https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/us-army-soldier-arrested-attempting-assist-isis-conduct-deadly-ambush-us-troops
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, January 19, 2021
USA Army Soldier Arrested for Attempting to Assist ISIS to Conduct Deadly Ambush on USA Troops
Provided Tactical Guidance in Attempt to Help ISIS to Attack USA Forces in the Middle East
The Justice Department, along with the New York City Police Department (NYPD) and USA Army Counterintelligence, announced today the arrest of a private first class in the USA Army, on federal terrorism charges based on Bridges alleged efforts to assist ISIS to attack and kill USA soldiers in the Middle East.
Cole James Bridges, aka Cole Gonzales, 20, of Stowe, Ohio, was charged by complaint with attempting to provide material support to a designated foreign terrorist organization and attempting to murder USA military service members.
The FBI and USA Army Counterintelligence arrested Bridges today, and he will be presented later today in the USA District Court for the Southern District of Georgia.
Bridges is charged with giving military advice and guidance on how to kill fellow soldiers to individuals he thought were part of ISIS, said Assistant Attorney General for National Security John C.
Demers.
This alleged personal and professional betrayal of comrades and country is terrible to contemplate, but fortunately, the FBI was able to identify the threat posed by Bridges, and todays charges are the first step in holding him accountable for his crimes.
ISIS ideology continues to infect those who would threaten the nations security from within and without, and we will continue to fight this threat.

As alleged, Cole Bridges betrayed the oath he swore to defend the United States by attempting to provide ISIS with tactical military advice to ambush and kill his fellow service members, said Acting USA Attorney for the Southern District of New York Audrey Strauss.
Our troops risk their lives for our country, but they should never face such peril at the hands of one of their own.
Today, thanks to the efforts of the agents and detectives of the JTTF, and our partners in the Department of Defense, Bridges is in custody and facing federal terrorism charges for his alleged crimes.

As we allege today, Bridges, a private in the USA Army, betrayed our country and his unit when he plotted with someone he believed was an ISIS sympathizer to help ISIS attack and kill USA soldiers in the Middle East, said FBI Assistant Director in Charge of the New York Office William F.
Sweeney Jr.
Fortunately, the person with whom he communicated was an FBI employee, and we were able to prevent his evil desires from coming to fruition.
Bridges could have chosen a life of honorable service, but instead he traded it for the possibility of life in prison.
This case should serve as a reminder that the FBIs New York JTTF will never quit in its commitment to protect our Nation from all those who seek to do it harm.

Army Counterintelligences top priority is protecting the force so it can remain committed to fighting and winning our nations wars, said Army Counterintelligence Coordinating Authority Director Roy T.
Cochran.
The results of this investigation show the efforts of Army Counterintelligence agents working alongside our partners in the FBI.
We are dedicated to protecting our soldiers, civilians, and families from terrorist acts and insider threats.

According to the criminal complaint charging Bridges, which was unsealed today in Manhattan federal court:
Bridges joined the USA Army in approximately September 2019and was assigned as a cavalry scout in the 3rd Infantry Division based in Fort Stewart, Georgia.
Beginning in at least 2019, Bridges began researching and consuming online propaganda promoting jihadists and their violent ideology.
Bridges also expressed his support for the Islamic State of Iraq and al-Sham (ISIS) and jihad on social media.
In or about October 2020, Bridges began communicating with an FBI online covert employee (the OCE), who was posing as an ISIS supporter in contact with ISIS fighters in the Middle East.
During these communications, Bridges expressed his frustration with the USA military and his desire to aid ISIS.
Bridges then provided training and guidance to purported ISIS fighters who were planning attacks, including advice about potential targets in New York City, such as the 9/11 Memorial.
Bridges also provided the OCE with portions of a USA Army training manual and guidance about military combat tactics, for use by ISIS.
In or about December 2020, Bridges began to supply the OCE with instructions for the purported ISIS fighters on how to attack USA forces in the Middle East.
Among other things, Bridges diagrammed specific military maneuvers intended to help ISIS fighters maximize the lethality of attacks on USA troops.
Bridges further provided advice about the best way to fortify an ISIS encampment to repel an attack by USA Special Forces, including by wiring certain buildings with explosives to kill the USA troops.
Then, in January 2021, Bridges provided the OCE with a video of himself in body armor standing before a flag often used by ISIS fighters and making a gesture symbolic of support for ISIS.
Approximately a week later, Bridges sent a second video in which Bridges, using a voice manipulator, narrated a propaganda speech in support of the anticipated ambush by ISIS on USA troops.
Bridgesis charged in the complaint with (1) attempting to provide material support to ISIS, in violation of 18 USAC.
 2339B, which carries a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison; and (2) attempting to murder USA military service members, in violation of 18 USAC.
 1114, which carries a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison.
The statutory penalties are prescribed by Congress and are provided here for informational purposes only, as any sentencing of the defendant would be determined by the judge.
The Justice Department praised the outstanding efforts of the FBIs New York Joint Terrorism Task Force (JTTF), which consists of agents and analysts from the FBI, the NYPD, and over 50 other federal, state, and local agencies, USA Army Counterintelligence, the FBI Washington Field Office, the FBI Atlanta Field Office and its Savannah Resident Agency, the FBI Cleveland Field Office, the FBIs Counterterrorism Division, the USA Attorneys Office for the Southern District of Georgia, the Air Force Office of Special Investigations, USA Army Criminal Investigation Command, and the USA Army 3rd Infantry Division.
This prosecution is being handled by the Offices Terrorism and International Narcotics Unit.
Assistant USA Attorneys Sam Adelsberg, Matthew Hellman, and Sidhardha Kamaraju are in charge of the prosecution, with assistance from Trial Attorneys Michael Dittoe and Lauren Goddard of the Counterterrorism Section of the Department of Justices National Security Division.
Attachment(s): Download Bridges Complaint.
pdfTopic(s):CounterterrorismNational SecurityComponent(s):National Security Division (NSD)Press Release Number:21-70
Updated January 19, 2021