https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/acting-attorney-general-jeffrey-rosen-attends-security-briefing-fbi-s-strategic-information
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, January 14, 2021
Acting Attorney General Jeffrey A.
Rosen Attends Security Briefing at FBIs Strategic Information and Operations Center on Inauguration Planning and Recent Capitol Attack
Acting Attorney General Jeffrey A.
Rosen attended a briefing today at the FBIs Strategic Information and Operations Center (SIOC) on the recent attack on the Capitol building and law enforcement preparations for the upcoming presidential inauguration.
Following the briefing, he addressed the assembled law enforcement partners and thanked them for their efforts.
Americans can be proud of the effort the men and women of the Justice Department and our federal, state, and local partners have made in the days since the attack on the Capitol building, said Acting Attorney General Jeffrey Rosen.
As I have said repeatedly, our efforts at investigating the wrongdoing of that day are continuing around the clock and we are fully committed to hold those who engaged in criminal acts accountable.
Simultaneously, security preparations for the presidential inauguration and peaceful transfer of power continue and we will have absolutely no tolerance whatsoever for any attempts to disrupt any aspect of the inauguration or associated events leading up to, on, and following January 20.

During the SIOC visit, Rosen was briefed by federal, state, and local partners on specifics of the security plans for this week and next.
Following that security briefing, Mr.
Rosen met with a team of FBI leaders for another update on the investigations concerning the attack on the Capitol building.
To date, approximately 80 cases have been charged and 34 individuals have been arrested for their alleged criminal conduct during the attack on the Capitol Building.
The FBI has opened approximately 200 subject case files and received about 140,000 digital media tips from the public.
Notably, many of the tips are coming from friends, co-workers and other acquaintances of those allegedly involved in the attack.
The Department also launched a new online service for the public and media to track defendants charged with criminal offenses related to the Capitol attack.
The link is at Investigations Regarding Violence at the Capitol (justice.gov).
Following arrests, or surrender, defendants will appear before district court magistrate/judge where the arrest takes place, in accordance with the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, and prosecution will be by the USA Attorneys Office for the District of Columbia.
Component(s):Office of the Attorney General
Updated January 14, 2021