https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/justice-department-settles-new-york-based-pharmaceutical-manufacturing-company-resolve
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, May 27, 2021
Justice Department Settles with New York-Based Pharmaceutical Manufacturing Company to Resolve Immigration-Related Discrimination Claims
The Department of Justice announced yesterday that it reached a settlement with LNK International Inc.
(LNK), a Hauppauge, New York-based manufacturer of over-the-counter pharmaceuticals.
The settlement resolves the departments claims that LNK violated the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) when it discriminated against work-authorized non-USA citizens.
Based on its investigation, the department determined that LNK routinely requested unnecessary and specific documents from lawful permanent residents that the company hired for work in certain departments to prove that they were allowed to work in the United States.
The departments investigation determined that LNK requested that lawful permanent residents show their Permanent Resident Cards (sometimes known as green cards) to prove their work authorization, but allowed USA citizens to choose from among various acceptable document types.
According to the department, LNK also had an unlawful policy of requiring refugees and asylees, based on their immigration status, to show updated proof of their work authorization, even when they already had provided documents that demonstrated ongoing, permanent work authorization.
Employers cannot discriminate against employees because of their citizenship status, immigration status, or national origin when verifying that employees are authorized to work in the United States, said Assistant Attorney General Kristen Clarke of the Civil Rights Division.
The Justice Department looks forward to working with LNK to ensure its compliance with the INAs anti-discrimination provision, so that all employees are subject to the same rules for proving their ability to work in the United States.

Federal law allows all work-authorized individuals, regardless of citizenship status, to choose which valid, legally acceptable documentation to present to demonstrate their identity and authorization to work in the United States.
Many non-USA citizens, including lawful permanent residents, refugees, and asylees, among others, have work authorization that does not expire, and are eligible for several of the same types of documents as USA citizens (such as drivers licenses and unrestricted Social Security cards) to prove their work authorization.
The INAs anti-discrimination provision prohibits employers from requesting more or different documents than necessary to prove work authorization based on employees citizenship, immigration status, or national origin.
Under the terms of the settlement agreement, LNK will pay the United States a civil penalty of $220,000.00.
Additionally, LNK will train its employees on the requirements of the INAs anti-discrimination provision, including an IER-provided training, and be subject to monitoring for a three-year period to ensure the company is complying with the agreement.
The Civil Rights Divisions Immigrant and Employee Rights Section (IER) is responsible for enforcing the anti-discrimination provision of the INA.
The statute prohibits citizenship status and national origin discrimination in hiring, firing, or recruitment or referral for a fee; unfair documentary practices; and retaliation and intimidation.
Learn more about IERs work and how to get assistance through this brief video.
Applicants or employees who believe they were discriminated against based on their citizenship, immigration status, or national origin in hiring, firing, recruitment, or during the employment eligibility verification process (Form I-9 and E-Verify); or subjected to retaliation, can file a charge.
The public also can contact IERs worker hotline at 1-800-255-7688; call IERs employer hotline at 1-800-255-8155 (1-800-237-2515, TTY for hearing impaired); email IER@usdoj.gov; sign up for a free webinar; or visit IERs English and Spanish websites.
Subscribe to GovDelivery to receive updates from IER.
Attachment(s): Download Agreement.
pdfComponent(s):Civil Rights DivisionCivil Rights - Immigrant and Employee Rights SectionPress Release Number:21-490
Updated May 27, 2021