https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/minnesota-man-pleads-guilty-providing-material-support-isis
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, January 13, 2021
Minnesota Man Pleads Guilty to Providing Material Support to ISIS
The Justice Department today announced the guilty plea of Abdelhamid Al-Madioum, 24, to one count of providing material support and resources, namely personnel and services, to ISIS, a designated foreign terrorist organization.
Al-Madioum, a native of Morocco and naturalized USA citizen, previously had been detained overseas by the Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) and was subsequently transferred into FBI custody and returned to Minnesota.
Al-Madioum entered his guilty plea today before Judge Ann D.
Montgomery in USA District Court in Minneapolis, Minnesota.
A sentencing date will be scheduled at a later time.
According to the defendants guilty plea and documents filed with the court, on June 23, 2015, Al-Madioum and his family traveled from St.
Louis Park, Minnesota, to Casablanca, Morocco, to visit their extended family.
On July 8, 2015, Al-Madioum left Morocco and traveled to Istanbul, Turkey.
There, Al-Madioum met up with members of ISIS who aided his border-crossing into Syria.
Once in Syria, the defendant joined other members of ISIS who brought him to Mosul, Iraq.
According to the defendants guilty plea, after Al-Madioum arrived in Mosul, he was administratively ISIS and received military training from its members.
Al-Madioum was then assigned to the Tariq Bin-Ziyad Battalion of the Abu Mutaz al-Qurashi Division of ISIS, where he served as a solider for ISIS until 2016, when he was injured conducting military activities on behalf of ISIS.
Following Al-Madioums injury, he remained a member of ISIS and continued to receive a stipend until his surrender to the SDF in or near Baghouz, Syria, in March of 2019.
In September of 2020, Al-Madioum was returned to Minnesota.
This case is the result of an investigation conducted by the FBIs Joint Terrorism Task Force.
Assistant USA Attorney Andrew R.
Winter and Trial Attorney Danielle S.
Rosborough of the National Security Divisions Counterterrorism Section are prosecuting the case.
Topic(s):National SecurityComponent(s):National Security Division (NSD)Press Release Number:21-51
Updated January 13, 2021