https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/restaurant-chain-manager-pleads-guilty-employment-tax-fraud
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, January 13, 2021
Restaurant Chain Manager Pleads Guilty to Employment Tax Fraud
Caused Tax Loss of More Than $1.5 Million
The manager of the San Diego Home Cooking restaurant chain pleaded guilty today to employment tax fraud, announced Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Richard E.
Zuckerman of the Justice Departments Tax Division and USA Attorney Robert S.
Brewer Jr.
for the Southern District of California.
According to court documents and statements made in court, Aleksandar Sreckovic was a manager for San Diego Home Cooking, a restaurant group with over 110 employees and five restaurants in the San Diego area, including Caf 56 & Bar and Mission Valley Caf & Bar in San Diego, Lake Murray Caf in La Mesa, Lakeside Caf in Lakeside, and Centre City Caf in Escondido.
Sreckovic had significant control over the finances of the company and had a duty to account for and pay over the employment taxes on behalf of the companys employees to the IRS.
In November 2014, Sreckovic directed an outside payroll company to stop making employment-tax payments.
From the last quarter of 2014 through 2017, Sreckovic did not file employment tax returns nor pay employment taxes for San Diego Home Cooking.
In total, Sreckovic caused a tax loss of over $1.5 million.
Instead of paying employment taxes, Sreckovic paid other creditors and his own personal expenses.
Sreckovic has agreed to pay over $2.2 million in restitution, interest, and penalties to the IRS.
USA District Judge Cathy Ann Bencivengo scheduled sentencing for April 2, 2021.
At sentencing, Sreckovic faces a maximum sentence of five years in prison.
He also faces a period of supervised release and monetary penalties.
Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Zuckerman and USA Attorney Brewer commended the special agents of IRS Criminal Investigation, who conducted the investigation, and Assistant USA Attorney Andrew Galvin and Trial Attorney Matthew Hoffman, who are prosecuting the case.
Additional information about the Tax Division and its enforcement efforts may be found on the Divisions website.
Topic(s):Financial FraudTaxComponent(s):Tax DivisionUSAO - California, SouthernPress Release Number:21-47
Updated January 13, 2021