https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/thirteen-charged-federal-court-following-riot-united-states-capitol
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, January 8, 2021
Thirteen Charged in Federal Court Following Riot at the United States Capitol
Approximately 40 charged in Superior Court
Thirteen individuals have been charged so far in federal court in the District of Columbia related to crimes committed at the USA Capitol in Washington, D.
C, on Wednesday, Jan.
6, 2021.
In addition to those who have been charged, additional complaints have been submitted and investigations are ongoing.
The lawless destruction of the USA Capitol building was an attack against one of our Nations greatest institutions, said Acting USA Attorney Michael Sherwin.
My Office, along with our law enforcement partners at all levels, have been expeditiously working and leveraging every resource to identify, arrest, and begin prosecuting these individuals who took part in the brazen criminal acts at the USA Capitol.
We are resolute in our commitment to holding accountable anyone responsible for these disgraceful criminal acts, and to anyone who might be considering engaging in or inciting violence in the coming weeks  know this: you will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law.

ATF is committed to the rule of law and the protection of all citizens Constitutional rights, said Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) Deputy Director Regina Lombardo.
We continue to support our law enforcement partners to ensure those who violated the law during the events at the Capitol this week are brought to justice.
ATF has dedicated all appropriate resources to complete these investigations as soon as possible.

Todays charges are just the beginning of the FBIs ongoing efforts to hold those responsible for the criminal acts of violence and destruction that unfolded during the USA Capitol building breach on January 6th, said FBI Director Christopher Wray.
To be clear, what took place that day was not First Amendment-protected activity, but rather an affront on our democracy.
The FBI, along with our local, state and federal partners, is committed to ensuring that justice is served.
We will continue to aggressively investigate each and every individual who chose to ignore the law and instead incite violence, destroy property, and injure others.
Deputy USA Marshals responded to support USA Capitol Police after the incursion into the Capitol building.
Our deputies helped to clear the building and escorted members of Congress back to the main chamber for official business, said USA Marshals Service Director Donald Washington.
US Marshals will now bring to bear our fugitive investigations expertise to ensure that individuals charged in federal warrants are brought to face justice.
Respect for the rule of law is a foundational principle for our democracy and the freedoms that it provides.
Unlawful acts will not go unpunished.

The events that happened at and around the United States Capitol were unconscionable, and those responsible will be held accountable for their attempts to thwart Democracy, said Metropolitan Police Department Chief of Police Robert J.
Contee III.
While these charges represent a positive step, there is still work to be done.
Our collective intentions are to work diligently to identify all of the persons responsible for the insurrection at our USA Capitol.

Thirteen individuals have been charged with federal crimes.
The defendants and charges are outlined below:
Cleveland Meredith was charged on Jan.
7, 2021, with making interstate threats to Speaker Nancy Pelosi.
Richard Barnett, of Arkansas, was charged on Jan.
7, 2021, with knowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building or grounds without lawful entry; violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds; and theft of public money, property, or records.
Barnett allegedly entered a restricted area of the Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi.
Lonnie Coffman, of Alabama, was charged on Jan.
7, 2021, with possession of an unregistered firearm (destructive device) and carrying a pistol without a license.
It is alleged that Coffmans vehicle contained 11 explosive devices known as Molotov cocktails and firearms.
It is further alleged he was in possession of two firearms.
Coffman was arrested and is currently being held.
His detention hearing is scheduled for Jan.
12, 2021.
Mark Leffingwell, was charged on Jan.
7, 2021, with knowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building or grounds without lawful authority; assault on a federal law enforcement officer; and violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds.
Leffingwell allegedly entered the Senate side of the Capitol and when stopped by law enforcement, struck an officer in the helmet and chest.
Leffingwell is currently being held and has a detention hearing in district court today.
Christopher Alberts, of Maryland, was charged on Jan.
7, 2021, with carrying or having readily accessible, on the grounds of the United States Capitol Building, a firearm and ammunition.
Specifically a Taurus G2C, 9mm handgun and 9mm caliber ammunition.
The defendant appeared in district court and was released.
He has a preliminary hearing scheduled for Jan.
28, 2021.
Joshua Pruitt, was charged on Jan.
7, 2021, with knowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building or grounds without lawful authority.
The defendant appeared in district court and was released.
He has a preliminary hearing scheduled for Jan.
28, 2021.
Matthew Council, of Florida, was charged on Jan.
7, 2021, with knowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building or grounds without lawful authority and violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds.
Council allegedly unlawfully entered the Capitol building, and when stopped by law enforcement, he pushed the officer.
Cindy Fitchett, of Virginia, was charged on Jan.
7, 2021, with knowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building or grounds without lawful authority; or knowingly, with intent to impede government business or official functions, engaging in disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds; and violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds.
Michael Curzio, of Florida, was charged on Jan.
7, 2021, with knowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building or grounds without lawful authority; or knowingly, with intent to impede government business or official functions, engaging in disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds; and violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds.
Douglas Sweet, of Florida, was charged on Jan.
7, 2021, with knowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building or grounds without lawful authority; or knowingly, with intent to impede government business or official functions, engaging in disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds; and violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds.
Bradley Ruskelas, of Illinois, was charged on Jan.
7, 2021, with knowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building or grounds without lawful authority; or knowingly, with intent to impede government business or official functions, engaging in disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds; and violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds.
Terry Brown, of Pennsylvania, was charged on Jan.
7, 2021, with knowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building or grounds without lawful authority; or knowingly, with intent to impede government business or official functions, engaging in disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds; and violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds.
Thomas Gallagher was charged on Jan.
7, 2021, with knowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building or grounds without lawful authority; or knowingly, with intent to impede government business or official functions, engaging in disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds; and violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds.
In addition, approximately 40 individuals have been arrested and charged in Superior Court with offenses including, but not limited to, unlawful entry, curfew violations, and firearms-related crimes.
The cases are being prosecuted by the U.
S Attorneys Office for the District of Columbia and are being investigated jointly by the FBI; USA Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives; United States Marshals Service; USA Capitol Police Department; and the Metropolitan Police Department.
The ATF and FBI continue to urge the public to report suspected use of explosive devices, or violent, destructive acts associated with the recent unrest.
Anyone with information can call 1-888-ATF-TIPS (1-888-283-8477), emailATFTips@atf.govor submit information anonymously viaReportIt.
com.
The FBI is looking for individuals who may have incited or promoted violence of any kind.
Anyone with digital material or tips can call 1-800-CALL-FBI (800-225-5324) or submit images or videos atfbi.gov/USCapitol.
The details contained in the charging documents are allegations.
Defendants are presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law.
Attachment(s): Download Barnett - Complaint Download Barnett - Statement of Facts Download Coffman - Affidavit in Support Download Coffman - Criminal Complaint Download Leffingwell - Complaint Download Leffingwell - Statement of Facts Download Alberts - Complaint Download Alberts - Statement of Facts Download Pruitt - Complaint Download Pruitt - Statement of Facts Download Council - Criminal Complaint Download Council - Statement of Facts Download Fitchett et al - Complaint Download Fitchett et al - Statement of FactsComponent(s):USAO - District of ColumbiaPress Release Number:21-21
Updated January 11, 2021