https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/california-woman-pleads-guilty-hate-crime-threatening-bomb-catholic-prep-school
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Monday, January 4, 2021
California Woman Pleads Guilty to Hate Crime for Threatening to Bomb Catholic Prep School
The Justice Department announced today that Sonia Tabizada, age 36, of San Jacinto, California, pleaded guilty in federal court to intentionally obstructing persons in the enjoyment of their free exercise of religious beliefs by threatening to bomb the Georgetown Visitation Preparatory School in Washington, D.
C.
, in violation of Title 18, USA Code, Section 247.
In May 2019, school officials announced that Visitation Prep, the oldest Catholic school for girls in the country, would begin publishing same-sex wedding announcements in its alumni magazine to advance its teaching that we are all children of God .
.
.
worthy of respect and love.
 According to the plea agreement, Tabizada learned of this announcement and made multiple calls threatening violence in response to the schools decision.
On May 15, 2019, Tabizada left a voice message stating that she was going to burn and bomb the church.
Tabizada also stated that she was going to kill school officials and students.
Several minutes later, Tabizada left a second voice mail stating that she was going to blow up the school and warned that she would commit terrorism.

The defendant made violent threats against high school students, religious leaders, and school officials based solely on her disagreement with a private schools application of religious doctrine, said Eric Drieband, Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Rights Division.
Tolerance and religious freedom are cornerstone values in our society and the Department of Justice will continue to vigorously prosecute violent threats motivated by bias.

The defendants violent threats were directed at the free exercise of a private school communitys religious beliefs.
An attack upon the free exercise of any person or groups religious beliefs is an attack upon the civil rights of every citizen.
Todays guilty plea is part of my offices commitment to ensuring that all District citizens can safely exercise their religious beliefs and that all of their civil rights are protected, said Michael R.
Sherwin, Acting USA Attorney for the District of Columbia.
Tabizada used threats of violence to intimidate others because of differing religious views, said Steven M.
DAntuono, Assistant Director in Charge of the FBI Washington Field Office.
Every citizen and community has the Constitutional right to exercise their own religious beliefs free from fear and discrimination.
Defending civil rights is a top priority for the FBI and we will continue to work to protect the civil rights and freedoms granted to all Americans.

Tabizada will be sentenced at a hearing scheduled for March 23, 2021.
She faces a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison, three years of supervised release, and a fine of up to $250,000.
The case was investigated by the FBI Washington Field Office and is being prosecuted by Assistant USA Attorney Kendra Briggs of the District of Columbia and Civil Rights Division Trial Attorney Michael J.
Songer.
Topic(s):Civil RightsHate CrimesComponent(s):Civil Rights DivisionCivil Rights - Criminal SectionUSAO - District of ColumbiaPress Release Number:21-4
Updated January 4, 2021