https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/alaska-defendant-pleads-guilty-threatening-los-angeles-synagogue
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, May 27, 2021
Alaska Defendant Pleads Guilty for Threatening Los Angeles Synagogue
An Alaska defendant pleaded guilty today to making threats to a synagogue and attempting to obstruct the free exercise of religious beliefs in Los Angeles, California.
On May 5, William Alexander, 50, of Anchorage, Alaska, entered a guilty plea before USA District Court Judge Matthew McCrary Scoble to an indictment charging them with one count of making threatening interstate communications and one count of intentionally obstructing and attempting to obstruct persons in the enjoyment of their free exercise of religious beliefs through the threatened use of force.
According to information presented at the guilty plea hearing, on Nov.
1, 2019, while in Anchorage, Alexander used their cellular phone to call a Los Angeles area synagogue.
Alexander left a voice message stating that they were going to kill the synagogues congregants, while repeatedly using slurs referring to people of Jewish faith.
Alexander intended the voice message to be viewed as a threat.
At the plea hearing, Alexander admitted committing this act with the intent to obstruct the synagogues congregants from enjoying the free exercise of their religious beliefs.
Alexanders sentencing hearing is scheduled for August 23.
One of the greatest truths about our nations is that everyone has the right to be free from threats of violence because of their religious beliefs, said Assistant Attorney General Kristen Clarke of the Justice Departments Civil Rights Division.
Those individuals who are driven by hate to violate that right will be brought to justice.
The defendants conviction in this case sends a strong message that hate crimes will not be tolerated in our free society.

For centuries, religious freedom has been a pillar of American society and a beacon for those persecuted for their faith, said Acting USA Attorney Bryan Wilson for the District of Alaska.
We are committed to protecting this freedom and individuals or groups who threaten it will be held accountable for their actions.
Violence and intimidation are abhorrent and have no place in this country.

The case is being investigated by the FBIs Anchorage Field Office and is being prosecuted by Assistant USA Attorney Jonas Walker of the District of Alaska and Civil Rights Division Trial Attorney Sanjay Patel.
Topic(s):Hate CrimesComponent(s):Civil Rights DivisionPress Release Number:21-491
Updated May 27, 2021