https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/new-jersey-man-pleads-guilty-violating-foreign-corrupt-practices-act
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, December 17, 2020
New Jersey Man Pleads Guilty to Violating the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
A New Jersey man who controlled two USA-based companies pleaded guilty today for paying a total of $100,000 in bribes to a Korean government official in order to obtain and retain contracts with the Defense Acquisition Program Administration (DAPA), a state-owned and state-controlled agency within the Republic of Koreas Ministry of National Defense.
Acting Assistant Attorney General Brian C.
Rabbitt of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, USA Attorney Craig Carpenito of the District of New Jersey, and Special Agent in Charge George M.
Crouch Jr.
of the FBIs Newark Field Office made the announcement.
Deck Won Kang (Kang), 50, of Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey, pleaded guilty by videoconference before USA District Judge Claire C.
Cecchi to an information charging him with one count of violating the anti-bribery provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA).
Kang controlled two USA-based companies that provided goods and services, including naval equipment and technology, to DAPA.
According to admissions made in connection with his guilty plea, from in or around January 2009 through in or around February 2013, Kang engaged in a bribery scheme in order for his companies to obtain and retain business with DAPA.
Kang admitted that he promised to provide a high-ranking official in the Korean Navy and a procurement official for DAPA with something of value when the official left public office.
In exchange, the Korean official provided Kang with non-public information relating to the contracts in furtherance of Kangs companies obtaining the contracts.
Kang admitted that in order to fulfill his corrupt promise to the Korean official, between in or around April 2012 and in or around February 2013, at the officials direction following the officials retirement from DAPA, Kang caused a series of bribe payments totaling $100,000 to be wired from a bank account controlled by Kang in the United States to a bank account in Australia for the benefit of the Korean official.
The FBIs Newark Field office conducted the investigation.
Trial Attorney Della Sentilles of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section and Assistant USA Attorney Andrew Kogan of the District of New Jersey prosecuted the case.
The Justice Departments Office of International Affairs assisted with the case.
Topic(s):Foreign CorruptionComponent(s):Criminal DivisionCriminal - Criminal Fraud SectionFederal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)USAO - New JerseyPress Release Number:20-1370
Updated December 17, 2020