https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/northern-alabama-doctor-and-practice-manager-convicted-conspiring-unlawfully-distribute
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, December 16, 2020
Northern Alabama Doctor and Practice Manager Convicted for Conspiring to Unlawfully Distribute Opioids
A Northern Alabama doctor and her husband, who also served as her practice manager, pleaded guilty today for their roles in unlawfully distributing opioids and other controlled substances while the doctor was absent from the clinic.
Acting Assistant Attorney General Brian C.
Rabbitt of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, USA Attorney Prim F.
Escalona of the Northern District of Alabama, Special Agent in Brad L Byerly of the USA Drug Enforcement Administrations (DEA) New Orleans Field Division, and Special Agent in Charge Johnnie Sharp, Jr.
of the Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI) Birmingham Field Office made the announcement.
Elizabeth Korcz, M.
D.
, 47, a licensed physician, and Matthew Korcz, 47, her husband and former practice manager, both of Hoover, Alabama, pleaded guilty to conspiracy to unlawfully distribute controlled substances.
As part of the plea, the defendants also agreed to forfeit $46,181.79.
Sentencing will be scheduled at a later date.
As part of their guilty pleas, the defendants admitted to providing dangerous doses of hydrocodone to patients who were not examined by a medical professional and while Dr.
Korcz was absent from their clinic.
The defendants owned and operated Hoover Alt MD, a purported medical clinic with an in-house dispensary.
The defendants did not employ registered nurses or other qualified medical professionals, despite Dr.
Korczs absences.
The defendants admitted to allowing hydrocodone to be dispensed from their in-house dispensary while Dr.
Korcz was out of state on multiple occasions, according to the plea agreement.
DEA and FBI investigated the case.
Trial Attorney Devon Helfmeyer of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section and Assistant USA Attorney J.
B.
Ward of the Northern District of Alabama are prosecuting the case.
The Fraud Section leads the Appalachian Regional Prescription Opioid (ARPO) Strike Force.
Since its inception in October 2018, the ARPO Strike Force, which operates in 10 districts, has charged more than 85 defendants who are collectively responsible for distributing more than 65 million pills.
Since its inception in March 2007, the Health Care Fraud Strike Force, which maintains 15 strike forces operating in 24 districts, has charged more than 4,200 defendants who have collectively billed the Medicare program for approximately $19 billion.
In addition, the Health and Human Services (HHS) Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, working in conjunction with the HHS-Office of Inspector General, are taking steps to increase accountability and decrease the presence of fraudulent providers.
Individuals who believe that they may be a victim in this case should visit the Fraud Sections Victim Witness website for more information.
The year 2020 marks the 150th anniversary of the Department of Justice.
Learn more about the history of our agency atwww.
Justice.gov/Celebrating150Years.
Topic(s):OpioidsHealth Care FraudComponent(s):Criminal DivisionCriminal - Criminal Fraud SectionDrug Enforcement Administration (DEA)Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)USAO - Alabama, NorthernPress Release Number:20-1360
Updated December 16, 2020