https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/15-named-26-million-international-trade-fraud-scheme
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, December 15, 2020
15 Named In $26 Million International Trade Fraud Scheme
A federal grand jury in Houston, Texas, has returned a criminal indictment against eight individuals, while a related civil complaint has charged 14 individuals and one company relating to international trade fraud violations stemming from a decade-long scheme involving tires from China.
Law enforcement arrested Zheng Miranda Zhou, 53, of Missouri City, and Kun Bruce Liu, 40, of Sugar Land, yesterday.
They made their initial appearances in Houston federal court today, at which time the criminal indictment was unsealed.
Also charged in the indictment are Qinghua Shirley Song, 44, of Jurupa Valley, California; and Chinese residents Yue Joanna Peng, 42, Li Cathy Chen, 38, Xin Devin Zhang, age unknown, Shaohui Jasper Jia, 40, and Deng David Yongqiang, 36.
They are all considered fugitives and warrants remain outstanding for their arrests.
The Department of Justices Civil Division also filed a civil complaint Dec.
11 alleging trade fraud in the USA Court of International Trade.
The complaint names the eight criminal defendants and six other individuals - Xiaozhen Jenny Zhang, 34, Di Terry Wang, 34, Liang Leon Yu, 49, Lin Leo Zhang, 37, Jinbing David Wang, 36, and Minglian Bill Li, 28, as well as Houston area company Winland International Inc.
, dba Super Tire Inc.
David Wang is a resident of New Jersey, while the remaining civil defendants reside in China.
The Civil Division, through the Department of Justices Trade Fraud Task Force (TFTF), will continue to partner with USA law enforcement agencies and USA Attorneys Offices to aggressively investigate and pursue individuals and companies who attempt to evade USA customs laws and target the USA manufacturing base with unfair trade practices, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Jeffery Bossert Clark.
We recognize the importance of ensuring that USA manufacturers are competing on a level playing field.

China and its industries want to rob, replicate and replace American made good and technology, said USA Attorney Ryan K.
Patrick for the Southern District of Texas.
Illegally importing and dumping these goods is one way to systemically weaken American competitors.
Whether direct espionage by the Chinese government or trade fraud like in this case, we will continue to investigate and prosecute every case we can.

The indictment and complaint allege the defendants conspired to avoid anti-dumping duties associated with off-the-road (OTR) and light vehicle and truck (LVT) tires from China.
Working through and with Winland, individuals allegedly imported OTR and LVT tires from companies that were subject to anti-dumping duties associated with Chinese tire manufacturers who had engaged in unfair trade practices in the United States.
The complaint further alleges USA-based defendants conspired with defendants in China to obtain falsified invoices and entry records of Chinese tire companies that were subject to a lower duty rate than the actual manufacturers of these tires.
Defendants submitted these falsified records to USA Customs officials when importing tires into the United States, so that Winland could avoid paying the higher duty rates, according to the allegations.
The indictment and complaint also allege they used these falsified records to understate the value of these tires, further lowering the amount Winland owed in duties.
The value of these tires allegedly exceeded $20.9 million and resulted in the deprivation to the United States of more than $6.5 million in import duties.
For more than a decade,Zhou and her co-conspirators are alleged to have sought to gain an unfair competitive advantage at the expense of USA companies and consumers through a series of schemes in violation of fair trade practices and USA import regulations, said Special Agent in Charge Mark B.
Dawson of Immigration and Customs Enforcements Homeland Security Investigations (HSI) - Houston.
Working closely with our USA and foreign law enforcement partners, and in coordination with the National Intellectual Property Rights Coordination Center, we were able to uncover these alleged deceptive practices leading to the criminal indictment and imposition of almost $21 million in civil penalties.

Customs and Border Protection (CBP) takes its trade mission of protecting the USA economy very seriously as we strive to maintain fair trade and preserve American jobs from predatory practices, said CBPs Director of Detroit Field Operations Christopher Perry.
These civil penalties and criminal indictments should serve as a warning to those who attempt to defraud our government and do harm to our economy and American businesses.

The Houston Trade/Revenue Interdiction and Enforcement Team conducted the collaborative investigation along with CBPs Automotive and Aerospace Center of Excellence and Expertise with the assistance of USA Citizenship and Immigration Services.
William Kanellis of TFTF is handling the civil matter.
TFTF is an inter-agency law enforcement task force with the primary mission of identifying, interdicting and prosecuting international trade fraud.
Assistant USA Attorneys Suzanne Emilady and Craig Feazel of the Southern District of Texas are prosecuting the criminal case.
An indictment or complaint is a formal accusation of criminal conduct, not evidence.
A defendant is presumed innocent unless convicted through due process of law.
Attachment(s): Download Stamped Indictment Topic(s):Consumer ProtectionComponent(s):Civil DivisionPress Release Number:20-1353
Updated December 15, 2020