https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/alabama-man-sentenced-prison-tax-evasion
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Monday, December 14, 2020
Alabama Man Sentenced to Prison for Tax Evasion
WASHINGTON  An Alabama man was sentenced to serve 12 months in prison for tax evasion, Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Richard E.
Zuckerman of the Justice Departments Tax Division and USA Attorney Prim Escalona for the Northern District of Alabama announced today.
According to court documents and statements made in court, John P.
Cooney of Jefferson County, Alabama, disclosed to the IRS in December 2011, through late-filed tax returns, that he owed approximately $780,000 to the IRS for the 2008 to 2010 tax years.
Despite acknowledging he owed these taxes, Cooney never paid them.
Instead, Cooney sought to conceal income he was earning by setting up a nominee corporation, GVA Advisors LLC (GVA), and arranging for payments to be made to GVA, rather than directly to him.
From 2013 through 2016, Cooney deposited more than $435,000 into the GVA account, concealing the income from the IRS and evading payment of his outstanding tax liabilities.
As a result of his actions, Cooney currently owes more than $1.3 million in outstanding balances, penalties, and interest to the IRS.
Cooney previously pleaded guilty to one count of tax evasion on Feb.
18, 2020.
In addition to the term of prison imposed, Cooney was ordered to serve three years of supervised release and to pay $1,311,904.70 in restitution to the IRS.
Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Zuckerman and USA Attorney Escalona commended special agents of IRS-Criminal Investigation, who conducted the investigation, and Trial Attorneys Kathryn Sparks and Alexander Effendi of the Tax Division and Assistant USA Attorney Catherine Crosby, who prosecuted the case.
Additional information about the Tax Division and its enforcement efforts may be found on the divisions website.
Topic(s):TaxComponent(s):Tax DivisionPress Release Number:20-1351
Updated December 14, 2020