https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/justice-department-announces-additional-distribution-more-488-million-victims-madoff-ponzi
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, December 10, 2020
Justice Department Announces Additional Distribution of more than $488 Million to Victims of Madoff Ponzi Scheme
The Department of Justice announced today that the Madoff Victim Fund (MVF) began its sixth distribution of approximately $488 million in funds forfeited to the USA Government in connection with the Bernard L.
Madoff Investment Securities LLC (BLMIS) fraud scheme, bringing the total distributed to almost $3.2 billion to nearly 37,000 victims worldwide.
In this distribution, payments will be sent to over 30,000 victims across the globe, bringing their total recovery to 80.05 percent.
This distribution represents the sixth in a series of payments that will eventually return over $4 billion to victims as compensation for losses they suffered from the collapse of the BLMIS.
The MVF has received over 65,000 petitions from victims in 136 countries.
With the $488 million distributed today, the department has now returned almost $3.2 billion to Madoffs victims, allowing them to recover more than 80 percent of what they lost, said Acting Assistant Attorney General Brian C.
Rabbitt of the Justice Departments Criminal Division.
This exceptional work  and there is more to come  has been made possible by the departments steadfast commitment to the pursuit of the proceeds of fraud through civil forfeiture.

This office continues its efforts to seek justice for victims of historys largest Ponzi scheme, said Acting USA Attorney Audrey Strauss of the Southern District of New York.
Todays additional payments of more than $488 million by this office and the USA Department of Justice Criminal Divisions Money Laundering and Asset Recovery Section represent the sixth in a series of distributions that will leave victims with compensation for more than 80 percent of their losses.
That is an extraordinary level of recovery for a Ponzi scheme  but our work is not yet finished, and the offices tireless commitment to compensating the victims who suffered as a result of Madoffs heinous crimes continues.

For decades, Bernard L.
Madoff used his position as chairman of BLMIS, the investment advisory business he founded in 1960, to steal billions from his clients.
On March 12, 2009, Madoff pleaded guilty to 11 federal felonies, admitting that he had turned his wealth management business into the worlds largest Ponzi scheme, benefitting himself, his family and select members of his inner circle.
On June 29, 2009, USA District Judge Denny Chin sentenced Madoff to serve 150 years in prison for running the largest fraudulent scheme in history.
Of the approximately $4.05 billion that will be made available to victims, approximately $2.2 billion was collected as part of the historic civil forfeiture recovery from the estate of deceased Madoff investor Jeffry Picower.
An additional $1.7 billion was collected as part of a deferred prosecution agreement with JPMorgan Chase Bank N.
A.
and civilly forfeited in a parallel action.
The remaining funds were collected through a civil forfeiture action against investor Carl Shapiro and his family, and from civil and criminal forfeiture actions against Bernard L.
Madoff, Peter B.
Madoff and their co-conspirators.
The MVFs payouts would not have been possible without the extraordinary efforts of the Criminal Divisions Money Laundering and Asset Recovery Section, the USA Attorneys Office for the Southern District of New York, and the FBI in the prosecution of these crimes and the recovery of assets supporting the forfeiture in this case.
The MVF is overseen by Richard Breeden, former Chairman of the USA Securities and Exchange Commission, in his capacity as Special Master appointed by the Department of Justice to assist in connection with the victim remission proceedings.
The Department of Justice also acknowledges the sacrifice of numerous individuals during this period of quarantine due to COVID-19 to ensure that this distribution occurred and remained on schedule.
More information about MVF and its compensation to victims of BLMIS is available on the MVF website atwww.
madoffvictimfund.
com, such as eligibility criteria, process updates, and frequently asked questions.
Further questions may be directed to the MVF at 866-624-3670 orinfo@madoffvictimfund.
com.
The year 2020 marks the 150th anniversary of the Department of Justice.
Learn more about the history of our agency atwww.
Justice.gov/Celebrating150Years.
Topic(s):Asset ForfeitureComponent(s):Criminal DivisionCriminal - Money Laundering and Asset Recovery SectionUSAO - New York, SouthernPress Release Number:20-1338
Updated December 10, 2020