https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/state-department-employee-and-spouse-plead-guilty-trafficking-counterfeit-goods-us-embassy
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, December 10, 2020
State Department Employee and Spouse Plead Guilty to Trafficking in Counterfeit Goods from USA Embassy
A USA Department of State employee and his spouse pled guilty today to one count of conspiracy to traffic in counterfeit goods.
The guilty pleas took place before USA District Judge Michael J.
McShane, who has scheduled sentencing for March 18, 2021, for both defendants.
Acting Assistant Attorney General Brian C.
Rabbitt of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, USA Attorney Billy J.
Williams of the District of Oregon, and Deputy Assistant Secretary and Assistant Director Ricardo Coln of the USA Department of States Diplomatic Security Service (DSS), made the announcement.
According to the plea agreements, Gene Leroy Thompson Jr.
, 54, was an Information Programs Officer employed by the Department of State at the USA Embassy in Seoul, Korea, a position that required Thompson Jr.
to maintain a security clearance.
Guojiao Becky Zhang, 40, is married to Thompson Jr.
and resided with him in Seoul, Korea.
Between September 2017 and December 2019, the two conspired to sell counterfeit goods, primarily Vera Bradley products.
Thompson Jr.
used his State Department computer to create numerous accounts on a variety of e-commerce platforms.
Once Thompson Jr.
created these accounts, Zhang took primary responsibility for operating the accounts, communicating with customers, and procuring counterfeit merchandise to be stored in the District of Oregon.
Thompson Jr.
and Zhang also directed a co-conspirator in the District of Oregon to ship items to purchasers across the United States.
The case was investigated by the Diplomatic Security Service Office of Special Investigations with assistance from the USA Postal Inspection Service.
The case is being prosecuted by Senior Counsel Frank Lin of the Criminal Divisions Computer Crime and Intellectual Property Section, Trial Attorney Jay Bauer of the Criminal Divisions Human Rights and Special Prosecutions Section, and Assistant USA Attorney Amy Potter of the District of Oregon.
The year 2020 marks the 150th anniversary of the Department of Justice.
Learn more about the history of our agency at www.
Justice.gov/Celebrating150Years.
Topic(s):Cyber CrimeComponent(s):Criminal DivisionCriminal - Computer Crime and Intellectual Property SectionUSAO - OregonPress Release Number:20-1337
Updated December 10, 2020