https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/former-ceo-and-founder-technology-company-pleads-guilty-investment-fraud-scheme
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, December 3, 2020
Former CEO and Founder of Technology Company Pleads Guilty to Investment Fraud Scheme
The former chief executive officer (CEO) and co-founder of Trustify, Inc.
(Trustify), a privately-held technology company founded in 2015 and based in Arlington, Virginia, pleaded guilty today to his involvement in a fraud scheme resulting in millions of dollars of losses to investors.
Acting Assistant Attorney General Brian C.
Rabbitt of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, USA Attorney G.
Zachary Terwilliger for the Eastern District of Virginia, and Assistant Director in Charge Steven M.
DAntuono of the FBIs Washington Field Office made the announcement.
Daniel Boice, 41, of Alexandria, Virginia, pleaded guilty to one count of securities fraud and one count of wire fraud before Senior United States District Judge T.
S.
Ellis III of the Eastern District of Virginia.
Sentencing is scheduled for March 19, 2021.
According to admissions made in connection with the plea agreement, beginning in 2015, Boice fraudulently solicited investments in Trustify, a privately held technology start-up company that connected customers with private investigators.
Boice raised approximately $18.5 million from over 90 investors by, among other things, falsely overstating Trustifys financial performance.
Despite representing to investors that their funds would go towards operating and growing Trustifys business, Boice diverted at least $3.7 million for his own benefit and to fund his lifestyle.
This included the purchase of a home in Alexandria, Virginia, travel by private jet, and furnishing a seaside vacation home.
The FBIs Washington Field Office is investigating the case.
Trial Attorney Blake Goebel of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section and Assistant USA Attorney Russell Carlberg of the Eastern District of Virginia are prosecuting the case.
Individuals who believe they may be a victim in this case should contact the Victim Witness Services Unit of the USA Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of Virginia at 703-299-3700 for more information.
The year 2020 marks the 150th anniversary of the Department of Justice.
Learn more about the history of our agency atwww.
Justice.gov/Celebrating150Years.
Topic(s):Securities, Commodities, & Investment FraudComponent(s):Criminal DivisionCriminal - Criminal Fraud SectionFederal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)USAO - Virginia, EasternPress Release Number:20-1315
Updated December 3, 2020