https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/justice-department-announces-civil-investigation-louisianas-prisoner-release-practices
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, December 3, 2020
Justice Department Announces Civil Investigation into Louisianas Prisoner Release Practices
The Justice Department announced today that it has opened a statewide civil investigation into Louisianas prisoner release practices.
The investigation will examine the Louisiana Department of Public Safety and Corrections policies and practices for ensuring the timely release of state prisoners in the custody of the Louisiana Department of Corrections who are incarcerated in state and local correctional facilities, including practices related to prisoners who are eligible for immediate release.
The department has not reached any conclusions regarding the allegations in this matter.
The investigation will be conducted under the Civil Rights of Institutionalized Persons Act (CRIPA).
Under CRIPA, the Department has the authority to investigate violations of prisoners constitutional rights that result from a pattern or practice of resistance to the full enjoyment of such rights.
 The department has conducted CRIPA investigations of many correctional systems, and where violations have been found, the resulting settlement agreements have led to important reforms.
The Civil Rights Divisions Special Litigation Section is conducting this investigation jointly with the USA Attorneys Offices for the Eastern, Middle, and Western Districts of Louisiana.
Individuals with relevant information are encouraged to contact the department via phone at 1-833-492-0097 or by email at community.
louisianadoc@usdoj.gov.
Additional information about the Civil Rights Division of the Justice Department is available on its website at www.
justice.gov/crt.
Topic(s):Civil RightsComponent(s):Civil Rights DivisionCivil Rights - Criminal SectionUSAO - Louisiana, EasternUSAO - Louisiana, MiddleUSAO - Louisiana, WesternPress Release Number:20-1309
Updated December 3, 2020