https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/justice-department-settles-georgia-based-staffing-company-resolve-immigration-related
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Monday, May 24, 2021
Justice Department Settles with Georgia-Based Staffing Company to Resolve Immigration-Related Discrimination Claims
Note:A full copy of the settlement agreement can be viewed here.
This press release is also available in Spanish.
WASHINGTON  The Department of Justice announced today that it reached a settlement with Pyramid ConsultingInc.
, an IT staffing company based in Georgia.
The settlement resolves claims that Pyramid Consulting discriminated against a new employee when it rejected his valid employment authorization documentation and requested an unnecessary extra document because he is an asylee, then fired him because he refused to comply with the companys unlawful request.
Employers cannot discriminate against employees based on their citizenship or immigration status by restricting the types of valid work authorization documents that employees can present, or by firing them for refusing to comply with illegal document requests, said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Pamela S.
Karlan of the Justice Departments Civil Rights Division.
We are pleased that Pyramid Consulting will compensate the charging party for lost wages and work with the Department of Justice to ensure that the company does not impose unlawful discriminatory barriers on employees when verifying their eligibility to work.

The departments investigation began after an asylee filed a discrimination complaint with the Civil Rights Division against Pyramid Consulting.
Based on its investigation, the department concluded that during the process of verifying his employment eligibility through the Form I-9, Pyramid Consulting rejected the workers drivers license and Social Security card, which are sufficient documentation for the Form I-9.
The department also determined that Pyramid Consulting requested that he provide an Employment Authorization Document instead.
After the worker refused, and even after he directed Pyramid Consulting to the relevant law prohibiting unfair documentary practices, Pyramid Consulting terminated his employment.
Following the departments initiation of its investigation, Pyramid Consulting rehired the worker, but only after he lost several weeks of pay.
The Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) prohibits employers from requesting more or different documents than necessary to establish eligibility to work based on employees citizenship, immigration status or national origin.
Under the terms of the settlement, Pyramid Consulting will pay a civil penalty to the United States of $5,204 and back pay of $13,920 to the worker.
It will also revise its policies and procedures, ensure that relevant employees participate in training on the requirements of the INAs anti-discrimination provision, and be subject to departmental monitoring over the term of the agreement.
The Civil Rights Divisions Immigrant and Employee Rights Section (IER) is responsible for enforcing the anti-discrimination provision of the INA.
The statute prohibits citizenship status and national origin discrimination in hiring, firing, or recruitment or referral for a fee; unfair documentary practices; and retaliation and intimidation.
Like USA citizens and lawful permanent residents, asylees and refugees may have several kinds of valid Form I-9 documents, and employers that request specific documents from them for the Form I-9 may be violating the law that IER enforces.
Learn more about IERs work and how to get assistance through this brief video.
Applicants or employees who believe they were discriminated against based on their citizenship, immigration status, or national origin in hiring, firing, recruitment, or during the employment eligibility verification process (Form I-9 and E-Verify); or subjected to retaliation, may file a charge.
The public also may contact IERs worker hotline at 1-800-255-7688; call IERs employer hotline at 1-800-255-8155 (1-800-237-2515, TTY for hearing impaired); email IER@usdoj.gov; sign up for a free webinar; or visit IERs English and Spanish websites.
Subscribe to GovDelivery to receive updates from IER.
Attachment(s): Download Pyramid Settlement Agreement Download Pyramid PR Spanish TranslationTopic(s):Civil RightsComponent(s):Civil Rights DivisionCivil Rights - Immigrant and Employee Rights SectionPress Release Number:21-482
Updated May 25, 2021