https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/more-700-members-transnational-organized-crime-groups-arrested-central-america-us-assisted
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, November 27, 2020
More than 700 Members Of Transnational Organized Crime Groups Arrested in Central America in USA Assisted Operation
Today, senior law enforcement officials from the United States, El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras announced criminal charges in Central America against more than 700 members of transnational criminal organizations, primarily MS-13 and 18th Street gangs, which resulted from a one-week coordinated law enforcement action under Operation Regional Shield (ORS).
ORS began in 2017 and is a Justice Department-led initiative to combat transnational organized crime that brings together gang prosecutors and investigators from El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico and the United States.
Through quarterly meetings, this group has coordinated multi-country investigations and simultaneous takedowns throughout the region.
Authorities also announced the arrest of 36 individuals in El Salvador and Honduras involved in human smuggling networks that span Central America and the United States.
Among those arrested in Honduras, include one police commissioner, one police deputy inspector, and three law enforcement agents.
All arrestees were charged with human smuggling, money laundering and illegal association to commit a crime.
The charges were announced by USA Attorney General William P.
Barr, Attorney General Raul Melara of El Salvador, Attorney General Mara Consuelo Porras Argueta of Guatemala, and the Attorney General of Honduras, Oscar Fernando Chinchilla, through the Public Ministrys Press Office.
The USA Department of Justice and our law enforcement partners in Central America are committed to continued collaboration in locating and arresting gang members and associates engaged in transnational crimes, said USA Attorney General Barr.
Our countries are made safer by working together to protect national security and to ensure public safety in our neighborhoods.

In 2017, the USA Attorney General, together with the Attorneys General of the three Central American countries, committed to combatting transnational organized crime and reducing illegal migration to the United States through increased cooperation and capacity building of law enforcement partners.
These efforts have led to the following results this week:
Prosecutors in El Salvador filed criminal charges against 1,152 members of organized crime groups in the country, primarily MS-13 and 18th Street Gangs.
Within hours, the National Civil Police had captured 572 of the defendants for charges involving terrorism, murder, extortion, kidnapping, vehicle theft, robbery, conspiracy, narcotics trafficking, money laundering, weapons violations, human trafficking and human smuggling.
Prosecutors and the Police also seized assets from these organized crime groups for forfeiture purposes.
In Guatemala, the Anti-Extortions Prosecution Office, the Prosecutors Office against Transnational Crimes, the Special Unit against Transnational Gangs, and police officers executed 80 search warrants, arrested 40 individuals, and served 29 arrest warrants against individuals already in custody, all of who are members of the 18th Street gang and MS-13.
Authorities seized drugs and a firearm, and filed charges for extortion, illicit association, conspiracy to commit murder, and extortive obstruction.
This investigation involves four transportation companies as victims of extortion in the amount of $54,523.
In Honduras, ORS joint operation took place in different phases during a one-week period resulted in the arrest of over 75 MS-13 and 18th Street gang members and five police officers and the execution of over 10 search warrants.
Illegal firearms, cellular phones, drugs and money were seized.
The arrestees were charged with illicit association, murder and conspiracy to commit murder, extortion and drug trafficking.
On February 9, President Donald J.
Trump issued an Executive Order on Enforcing Federal Law with Respect to Transnational Criminal Organizations and Preventing International Trafficking to dismantle and eradicate transnational criminal organizations threatening the safety of our communities.
Pursuant to that order, the USA Department of Justice has made dismantling transnational human smuggling networks and gangs, including MS-13, a top priority.
Regional Shield anti-gang efforts have led to charges against more than 11,000 gang members since 2017, including gang leaders nationwide.
Many of these indictments included the seizure of gang assets including firearms and money.
Also, during that time, more than a dozen smuggling/trafficking structures were dismantled.
The capacity-building efforts in Central America of the Justice Departments Office of Overseas Prosecutorial Development, Assistance and Training (OPDAT) have played a key role in bringing together the Attorneys General from El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras to form the regional operations targeting MS-13, 18th Street, and other gangs, as well as human smuggling transnational organizations.
Additionally, as a result of OPDATs capacity building efforts, the Justice Departments partners in Central America have strengthened cooperation and developed the skills, tools, and techniques to maximize results against all forms of transnational organized crime impacting the region and the United States.
Since 2017, we have taken a joint and coordinated approach as northern triangle countries with our strategic partner, the United States of America, said Attorney General Raul Melara of El Salvador.
To give our Salvadoran people a response and ensure that criminals face justice, we have strengthened the work of our Specialized Prosecution Units to be more effective in combating organized crime and terrorist organizations.
I am committed as Attorney General to continuing this coordinated effort.
We will only eradicate transnational organized crime by combining efforts as a region and by continuing to work together.

As Attorney General of the Republic and Chief of the Public Ministry, I reaffirm my commitment to the fight against transnational organized crime, one of the main goals of my administration, said Attorney General Mara Consuelo Porras Argueta of Guatemala.
To this end, we have increased efforts to provide an effective response to the population through the creation of the Prosecutors Office against Transnational Crimes, the Special Unit against Transnational Gangs, the Special Unit against Crimes in Airports and Airfields, the signing of the statement of the Advisory Group of General Prosecutors of the Northern Triangle, which I have the honor to preside; among other strategic actions to combat transnational organized crime with frontal actions against drug trafficking, gangs, organized crime and smuggling of migrants.

I consider that, due to the regional threat posed by these transnational crimes, equal interagency and regional efforts should come into effect, said Attorney General Oscar Fernando Chinchilla of Honduras.
Only by joining forces, the damaging consequences produced by these criminal organizations could be neutralized.

In El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras, the investigations into transnational criminal organizations is being handled by regional gang prosecutors who receive State Department-funded training and mentoring from the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), USA Immigration and Customs Enforcements Homeland Security Investigations (HSI) and OPDAT.
With support from State Departments Bureau of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement, prosecutors from OPDAT helped establish task forces in the region and work with FBIs local Transnational Anti-Gang (TAG) units, as well as HSIs Transnational Criminal Investigative Units (TCIUs).
These efforts have helped Central American partners convict thousands of criminals, seize over $1 billion in illicit assets, and coordinate dozens of transnational investigations with their USA counterparts.
Law enforcement agencies involved in this latest sixth ORS operation included El Salvadors Fiscalia General de la Republica (FGR) and thePolicia Nacional Civil (PNC); Honduras Polica Nacional, la Direccin Nacional de Servicios Especiales de Investigacin (DNSEI), Agencia Tcnica de Investigaciones Criminales (ATIC), and Fuerza Nacional Anti Maras y Pandillas (FNAMP) and Guatemalas Prosecutors Office against Transnational Crimes, National Civil Police, Special National Division of Criminal Investigation, National Civil Polices Anti-Gang Unit, Public Ministry, Anti-Extortions Prosecution Office, and the Special Unit against Transnational Gangs.
The year 2020 marks the 150th anniversary of the Department of Justice.
Learn more about the history of our agency atwww.
Justice.gov/Celebrating150Years.
Photo courtesy of El Salvador Attorney Generals Office.
Salvadoran Police arrest multiple gang members in Operation Regional Shield.
Photo courtesy of El Salvador Attorney Generals Office.
Salvadoran authorities seize cash from gang members which they will forfeit as proceeds of criminal activities.
Photo courtesy of El Salvador Attorney Generals Office.
Members of the 18th Street gang are arrested in Operation Regional Shield.
Attachment(s): Download ORS OPDAT press release SpanishComponent(s):Criminal DivisionCriminal - Office of Overseas Prosecutorial Development, Assistance & TrainingOffice of the Attorney GeneralPress Release Number:20-1291
Updated November 27, 2020