https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/fifteen-members-and-associates-philadelphia-la-cosa-nostra-indicted-federal-racketeering
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Monday, November 23, 2020
Fifteen Members and Associates of Philadelphia La Cosa Nostra Indicted on Federal Racketeering Charges
A superseding indictment was unsealed today against 15 defendants, including alleged members and associates of the South Philadelphia and Southern New Jersey-based criminal organization La Cosa Nostra (LCN), popularly known as the mafia or mob.
 The superseding indictment charges various crimes including racketeering conspiracy, illegal gambling, loansharking, extortion, and drug trafficking.
Acting Assistant Attorney General Brian C.
Rabbitt of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, USA Attorney William M.
McSwain of the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, and Special Agent in Charge Michael Driscoll of the FBIs Philadelphia Field Office made the announcement.
The defendants charged in the seven-count superseding indictment are Steven Mazzone, aka Stevie, 56; Domenic Grande, aka Dom, Mr.
Hopkins, Mr.
Brown, and Dom14, 41; Joseph Servidio, aka Joey Electric, 60; Salvatore Mazzone, aka Sonny, 55; Joseph Malone, 70; Louis Barretta, aka Louie Sheep, 56; Victor DeLuca, aka Big Vic, 56; Kenneth Arabia, aka Kenny, 67; Daniel Castelli, aka Danny, Cozzy, aka Butch, aka Harry, age 67; Carl Chianese, age 81; Anthony Gifoli, aka Tony Meatballs, 72; John Romeo, 58; Daniel Malatesta, 75; Daniel Bucceroni, 66; and John Michael Payne, 33.
According to court documents, the Philadelphia LCN is one of a number of LCN organized crime families based in various cities throughout the United States.
The purpose of the LCN in Philadelphia and elsewhere is to make money through the commission of various crimes, including illegal gambling, loansharking, drug trafficking, and extortion.
Like other LCN families, the Philadelphia LCN is operated through a defined hierarchical structure, including a Boss, an Underboss (Steven Mazzone), and Captains (Grande), who oversee crews consisting of soldiers and associates.
 As detailed in the superseding indictment, soldiers are members of the family who have been formally initiated through a ritual called a making ceremony, during which they swear allegiance to LCN above all else, take a vow of secrecy about the organization (the Code of Silence or Omerta), and agree to commit violence on behalf of the LCN if necessary.
After this ceremony, these men (who must be of 100 percent Italian ancestry) are then referred to as made members of LCN.
Associates are men who engage in criminal activity on behalf of LCN but who have not been formally made, either because they are up-and-coming and aspire to full membership, or because they are ineligible to be made because they lack fully Italian ancestry.
Made members and associates who break Omerta are looked upon unfavorably as rats and may be targeted for death by other members of the group.
As described in the superseding indictment, the Philadelphia LCN sought to use its reputation and influence to exercise control over criminal rackets like sports bookmaking and loansharking operating in Philadelphia and southern New Jersey, particularly Atlantic City.
During a period beginning in August 2015, 10 of the defendants allegedly conspired to conduct and participate in the affairs of the Philadelphia LCN through both a pattern of racketeering activity and through the collection of unlawful debts.
The remaining five defendants are charged with allegedly committing a variety of other offenses, including conducting an illegal gambling business, conspiracy to make extortionate extensions of credit, and conspiracy to distribute controlled substances, in partnership with other members and associates of the Philadelphia LCN.
As alleged in the superseding indictment, on Oct.
15, 2015, defendants Steven Mazzone, Grande, and Salvatore Mazzone participated in a making ceremony (as detailed above) in a South Philadelphia residence, during which several new soldiers were inducted into the Philadelphia LCN.
The superseding indictment describes the various acts allegedly committed by the defendants and others as members of the group including the distribution of heroin, cocaine, fentanyl, methamphetamine and oxycodone pills; the disbursement and collection of tens of thousands of dollars of unlawful bookmaking and other debts owed to the group at interest rates as high as 400 percent; and even an alleged conspiracy to kidnap or murder a drug dealer in order to protect the reputation of the Philadelphia LCN after the dealer sold members of the group fake drugs.
The case is being investigated by the FBIs Philadelphia Field Office and Atlantic City Resident Agency with the assistance of the Philadelphia Police Department, the Pennsylvania State Police and the Pennsylvania Office of the Attorney General.
The case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorney Alexander Gottfried of the Criminal Divisions Organized Crime and Gang Section Assistant USA Attorney Jonathan Ortiz of the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
An indictment, information, or criminal complaint is an accusation.
A defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty.
The year 2020 marks the 150th anniversary of the Department of Justice.
Learn more about the history of our agency at www.
Justice.gov/Celebrating150Years.
Attachment(s): Download Mazzone et al Superseding IndictmentTopic(s):Drug TraffickingComponent(s):Criminal DivisionCriminal - Organized Crime and Gang SectionFederal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)USAO - Pennsylvania, EasternPress Release Number:20-1276
Updated November 23, 2020