https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/executions-scheduled-inmates-convicted-brutal-murders-many-years-ago
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, November 20, 2020
Executions Scheduled for Inmates Convicted of Brutal Murders Many Years Ago
Attorney General William P.
Barr today directed the Federal Bureau of Prisons to schedule the executions of three federal-death row inmates sentenced to death for staggeringly brutal murders, including the murder of a child and, with respect to two inmates, the murder of multiple victims.
Alfred Bourgeois abused, tortured, and beat to death his young daughter.
After a paternity test identified Bourgeois as the father of a two-and-a-half-year-old girl and a court ordered that he pay child support to the mother, Bourgeois took temporary custody of his daughter and brought her with him on a trucking route.
While on the trip, Bourgeois systematically abused and tortured her  including by punching her in the face, whipping her with an electrical cord, and burning the bottom of her foot with a cigarette lighter.
In July 2002, Bourgeois arrived at the Corpus Christi Naval Air Station for a delivery.
While backing his truck up to a loading dock, his daughter tipped over her training potty.
Bourgeois became enraged and repeatedly slammed the back of her head into the trucks window and dashboard, killing her.
On March 16, 2004, a jury in the USA District Court for the Southern District of Texas found Bourgeois guilty of murder within the special territorial jurisdiction of the United States, and unanimously recommended a death sentence, which the court imposed.
His conviction and sentence were affirmed on appeal, and his requests for collateral relief were ultimately rejected by federal courts.
In July 2019, his execution was scheduled for Jan.
13, 2020, but legal impediments prevented the government from proceeding at that time.
Bourgeois is scheduled to be executed by lethal injection on Dec.
11, 2020, at the Federal Correctional Complex, Terre Haute, Indiana.
Cory Johnson murdered seven people  Peyton Johnson, Louis Johnson, Bobby Long, Dorothy Armstrong, Anthony Carter, Linwood Chiles, and Curtis Thorne  in furtherance of his drug-trafficking activities.
Between 1989 and July 1992, Johnson and several co-conspirators, including federal death-row inmates Richard Tipton and James Roane, were partners in a large drug-trafficking conspiracy based in Richmond, Virginia.
In early 1992, Johnson went on a killing spree, shooting and killing each of the seven victims for perceived slights or rivalry in the drug trade.
Johnson shot one victim at close range after ordering him to place his head on a car steering wheel.
Johnson shot and killed another victim at the victims home when he failed to pay for crack cocaine  and Johnson also murdered the victims sister and a male acquaintance.
In February 1993, a jury in the USA District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia found Johnson guilty of numerous federal offenses, including seven counts of capital murder, and unanimously recommended seven death sentences, which the court imposed.
Johnsons convictions and sentences were affirmed on appeal more than 24 years ago, and his initial round of collateral challenges failed 15 years ago.
Johnsons execution initially was scheduled to occur in May 2006, but a preliminary injunction prevented the government from proceeding until it was vacated this September.
Johnson is scheduled to be executed by lethal injection on Jan.
14, 2021, at the Federal Correctional Complex, Terre Haute, Indiana.
Dustin John Higgs kidnapped and murdered three women  Tamika Black, 19; Tanji Jackson, 21; and Mishann Chinn, 23.
One evening in January 1996, Higgs and two friends drove to Washington, D.
C.
, to pick up Black, Jackson, and Chinn, whom Higgs had invited to his apartment in Laurel, Maryland.
At the apartment, Jackson rebuffed an advance by Higgs and the women left.
Higgs offered the women a ride back to Washington, D.
C.
, but instead drove to a secluded area in the Patuxent National Wildlife Refuge, ordered the women out of the vehicle, gave a gun to one of the friends, and said, better make sure theyre dead.
 The other man shot Black and Jackson in the chest and back, and shot Chinn in the back of the head, killing all three women.
On Oct.
11, 2000, a jury in the USA District Court for the District of Maryland found Higgs guilty of numerous federal offenses, including three counts of first-degree premeditated murder, three counts of first-degree felony murder, and three counts of kidnapping resulting in death, and unanimously recommended nine death sentences, which the court imposed.
Higgs convictions and sentences were affirmed on appeal nearly 17 years ago, and his initial round of collateral challenges failed nearly eight years ago.
Higgs is scheduled to be executed on Jan.
15, 2021.
Topic(s):Violent CrimeComponent(s):Office of the Attorney GeneralPress Release Number:20-1274
Updated November 20, 2020