https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/seven-ms-13-gang-members-indicted-violent-crime-and-drug-distribution-conspiracy
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, November 19, 2020
Seven MS-13 Gang Members Indicted in Violent Crime and Drug Distribution Conspiracy
Conspired to Commit Acts Involving Murder, Intimidation, and Assault
A federal grand jury in Nashville, Tennessee, returned a 16-count superseding indictment Wednesday, charging seven MS-13 gang members with conspiracy to distribute cocaine and marijuana and serious firearm-related offenses, announcedActing Assistant Attorney General Brian C.
Rabbitt of the Justice Departments Criminal Division and USA Attorney Don Cochran for the Middle District of Tennessee.
Those charged includeCarlos Ochoa-Martinez, 31, aka El Serio, Jason Sandoval, 35, aka Bin Laden, Jorge Flores, 28, aka Peluche, all of Nashville; Jose Pineda-Caceres, 22, aka Demente, and Franklin Hernandez, 21, aka Happy, both of Honduras; Gerson Serrano-Ramirez, 33, aka Frijole, of El Salvador and Juan Melendez, aka Shaggy, of Lebanon, Tennessee.
The indictment alleges that beginning in 2014 and continuing until yesterday, the defendants conspired with each other to obtain bulk quantities of marijuana and cocaine for redistribution in and around middle Tennessee.
Once the drugs were received, the defendants would reduce them into smaller quantities and sell them in and around nightclubs in Nashville and from the parking lots and restrooms of these establishments.
In order to maximize drug distribution in these nightclubs, the defendants would threaten rival and competing drug dealers who sold and attempted to sell cocaine and marijuana in the nightclubs.
In order to protect their drugs, territory and proceeds, the defendants would acquire, carry and discharge firearms.
To maintain and extend control over their drug distribution, the defendants would commit acts involving murder, intimidation and assault against individuals who jeopardized its operations, including rival drug dealers.
All defendants are in custody and will appear before a USA Magistrate Judge at a later date.
This investigation is being conducted by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms & Explosives; USA Immigration and Customs Enforcements Homeland Security Investigations; the Drug Enforcement Administration; and the Metropolitan Nashville Police Department.
Trial Attorney Matthew Hoff of the Criminal Divisions Organized Crime & Gang Section and Assistant USA Attorney Ahmed Safeeullah are prosecuting this case.
An indictment is merely an accusation.
All defendants are presumed innocent until proven guilty in a court of law.
The year 2020 marks the 150th anniversary of the Department of Justice.
Learn more about the history of our agency atwww.
Justice.gov/Celebrating150Years.
Topic(s):Drug TraffickingViolent CrimeComponent(s):Criminal DivisionCriminal - Organized Crime and Gang SectionUSAO - Tennessee, MiddlePress Release Number:20-1267
Updated November 19, 2020