https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/justice-department-reaches-landmark-agreement-massachusetts-department-children-and-families
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, November 19, 2020
Justice Department Reaches Landmark Agreement with Massachusetts Department of Children and Families to Address Discrimination Against Parents with Disabilities
The Departments of Justice and Health and Human Services (HHS) announced today that they reached a landmark agreementwith the Massachusetts Department of Children and Families (DCF).
The agreement resolves findings by the Justice Department and HHS that DCF discriminated against parents with disabilities in the administration of its child welfare program in violation of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act.
This is the first Department of Justice settlement to address disability discrimination by a state child welfare agency.
The stakes are never higher than when a parent faces the possibility of losing a child, said Assistant Attorney General Eric Dreiband of the Civil Rights Division.
Individuals with disabilities have just as much a right to raise their children as any other person in this free country, and no government should unnecessarily infringe upon that sacred right.
While child welfare agencies are faced with challenging and weighty decisions on a daily basis, they must always strive to ensure that no child is removed from a parent on the basis of unsupported stereotypes, discriminatory attitudes, or other unlawful reasons.
This agreement will ensure that parents with disabilities are treated as individuals, and that they receive the supports and services they need to have an equal opportunity to retain or regain custody of their children.
We believe this agreement will not only help thousands of families in Massachusetts, but also will provide a roadmap for child welfare agencies nationwide on how to treat parents with disabilities with the fairness, dignity, and respect that they deserve.

Parents with disabilities should never lose custody of their children due to discriminatory assumptions about their abilities.
The love of a parent, coupled with proper support services, can overcome a multiplicity of challenges, said Roger Severino, Director of the HHS Office forCivil Rights.
We are pleased to have reached this great result with the Department of Justice and Massachusetts.

In 2015, the Department of Justice and HHS jointly found that DCF discriminated against a mother with a developmental disability and sought to terminate her parental rights to her infant daughter based on assumptions about her disability.
Over the past five years, the Department of Justice and HHS received similar complaints against DCF from parents with physical, hearing, developmental, and other disabilities.
The departments also received numerous complaints alleging that DCF denied requests for reasonable modifications, failed to provide interpreters to individuals with hearing impairments, and otherwise denied parents with disabilities an equal opportunity to benefit from DCFs programs and services.
The Justice Department investigated and substantiated many of these allegations, as well as allegations that DCFs methods of administering its programs and services have the effect of discriminating against parents with disabilities.
Under todays agreement, DCF will take critical steps to ensure the ADAs protections extend to parents with disabilities throughout the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
DCF will not base decisions about removal of a child on stereotypes or generalizations about persons with disabilities.
Rather, DCF will base such decisions on an individualized assessment of the parent with a disability and objective facts.
Additionally, DCF will appoint statewide and regional coordinators to oversee DCFs efforts to comply with the ADA and Section 504; create a new Parents with Disabilities Policy, including processes for requesting disability-based accommodations and filing disability-based complaints; train staff on DCFs obligations to parents with disabilities and its new policies and procedures; and periodically report to the Department of Justice and HHS on its handling of accommodation requests and disability-related complaints.
The ADA requires that child welfare agencies provide parents with disabilities an equal opportunity to access and benefit from their services.
Such agencies must reasonably modify policies and practices when necessary to avoid disability discrimination.
They must ensure that communication with parents with disabilities is effective.
And they must not use criteria or other administrative methods that result in disability discrimination.
This year marks the 30th Anniversary of the ADA.
The Justice Department plays a central role in advancing the nations goal of equal opportunity, full participation, independent living, and economic self-sufficiency for people with disabilities.
To learn more about the ADAs history and impact, please visit the departments ADA Anniversary webpage.
To read the Department of Justice and HHSs previously issued technical assistance for child welfare agencies, please click here.
For more information on the Civil Rights Division, please visit www.
justice.gov/crt.
For more information on the ADA, please call the Justice Departments toll-free ADA Information Line at 800-514-0301 (TDD 800-514-0383) or visit www.
ada.gov.
Topic(s):Civil RightsComponent(s):Civil Rights DivisionCivil Rights - Disability Rights SectionPress Release Number:20-1260
Updated November 20, 2020