https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/former-ceo-charged-schemes-defraud-us-government-related-conflict-afghanistan
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, November 17, 2020
Former CEO Charged in Schemes to Defraud USA Government Related to the Conflict in Afghanistan
The former chief executive officer of a USA government contractor was charged today in connection with schemes to defraud the USA Department of Defense regarding contracts related to USA military efforts in Afghanistan.
Acting Assistant Attorney General Brian Rabbitt of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, USA Attorney Prim F.
Escalona of the Northern District of Alabama, Special Inspector General John F.
Sopko for Afghanistan Reconstruction, and Director Frank Robey of the USA Army Criminal Investigation Commands Major Procurement Fraud Unit made the announcement.
Paul Daigle, 40, was charged with conspiracy, four counts of wire fraud, and four counts of false claims in an indictment filed today in the Northern District of Alabama.
Daigle was the CEO of a company based in Huntsville, Alabama, which served as a subcontractor on USA Department of Defense aviation contracts related to the war in Afghanistan.
According to the indictment, between 2013 and 2017, Daigle allegedly engaged in two fraudulent schemes that resulted in the submission of false claims to the USA Government.
The first scheme involved the use of unqualified employees for government contracts.
Daigle allegedly mapped employees to labor categories on government contracts for which the employees did not meet minimum qualifications, resulting in the government overpaying for unqualified labor.
To cover this up, Daigle allegedly directed employees to obtain false educational credentials and fake degrees from diploma mills on the internet.
The second scheme involved alleged false billing, in which the government was charged for work unrelated to a government contract.
The Criminal Divisions Fraud Section is the nations leading prosecuting authority for complex procurement fraud and corruption cases.
An indictment is merely an accusation.
The defendant is presumed innocent until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law.
This investigation is being conducted by the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction and the USA Army Criminal Investigations Division  Major Procurement Fraud Unit.
Trial Attorneys Michael P.
McCarthy and Matthew Kahn of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section and Assistant USA Attorney Davis Barlow of the USA Attorneys Office for the Northern District of Alabama are prosecuting the case.
The year 2020 marks the 150th anniversary of the Department of Justice.
Learn more about the history of our agency atwww.
Justice.gov/Celebrating150Years.
Attachment(s): Download Daigle IndictmentTopic(s):Financial FraudComponent(s):Criminal DivisionCriminal - Criminal Fraud SectionUSAO - Alabama, NorthernPress Release Number:20-1246
Updated November 17, 2020