https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/former-police-officer-and-gangster-disciples-member-sentenced-prison
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Monday, November 16, 2020
Former Police Officer and Gangster Disciples Member Sentenced to Prison
A former DeKalb County, Georgia, police officer and member of the Gangster Disciples was sentenced to 15 years in prison followed by five years of supervised release for racketeering conspiracy involving murder, announced Acting Assistant Attorney General Brian C.
Rabbitt of the Justice Departments Criminal Division and USA Attorney Byung J.
BJay Pak of the Northern District of Georgia.
Vancito Gumbs, 28, of Stone Mountain, Georgia, claimed to be a hitman for the Gangster Disciples while at the same time serving as a police officer.
Evidence showed that Gumbs relayed sensitive law enforcement information to the gang and provided a firearm to a fellow gang member.
According to the charges and other information presented in court, the Gangster Disciples are a national gang with roots in Chicago dating back to the 1970s.
The gang is highly structured, with a hierarchy of leadership positions known as Positions of Authority or POAs.
 The gang strictly enforces rules for its members, the most important of which is Silence and Secrecy  a prohibition on cooperating with law enforcement.
Violations of the rule are punishable by death.
Evidence at trial showed that the Gangster Disciples were responsible for 24 shootings from 2011 through 2015, including 12 murders.
Gumbs, who had been photographed flashing a hand sign used by the Gangster Disciples, was a self-professed hitman for the gang while serving as a police officer.
While he was employed as a DeKalb County police officer, federal agents captured Gumbs on recorded phone calls with the Chief Enforcer for the Georgia Gangster Disciples.
Evidence showed that during these calls, Gumbs relayed law enforcement information to the gang and provided a firearm to a fellow gang member.
On later calls, the Chief Enforcer noted that he had Gangster Disciples police officers at his disposal.
Among other criminal activity, the Gangster Disciples engaged in the commission of murders.
The jury found that Gumbs joined or remained in the racketeering conspiracy while knowing and agreeing that the gang engaged in murder.
This case was investigated by the FBI, Atlanta Police Department, and DeKalb County Police Department.
Principal Deputy Chief Kim S.
Dammers of the Criminal Divisions Organized Crime and Gang Section (OCGS), Assistant USA Attorneys Ryan K.
Buchanan, Deputy Chief of the Violent Crime and National Security Section, Erin N.
Spritzer of the Northern District of Georgia, and Trial Attorney Conor Mulroe of OCGS prosecuted the case.
The year 2020 marks the 150th anniversary of the Department of Justice.
Learn more about the history of our agency atwww.
Justice.gov/Celebrating150Years.
Topic(s):Violent CrimeComponent(s):Criminal DivisionCriminal - Organized Crime and Gang SectionUSAO - Georgia, NorthernPress Release Number:20-1242
Updated November 16, 2020