https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/statement-doj-office-professional-responsibility-report-jeffrey-epstein-2006-2008
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, November 12, 2020
Statement on DOJ Office of Professional Responsibility Report on Jeffrey Epstein 2006-2008 Investigation
The executive summary of a report by the Department of Justices Office of Professional Responsibility (OPR) was released today to affected victims.
The summary, which is available on the Justice Department website, provides the essential details about the findings of OPRs investigation into the USA Attorneys Office for the Southern District of Floridas resolution of its 20062008 federal criminal investigation of Jeffrey Epstein and its interactions with victims during the investigation.
While OPR did not find that Department attorneys engaged in professional misconduct, OPR concluded that the victims were not treated with the forthrightness and sensitivity expected by the Department.
OPR also concluded that former USA Attorney Acosta exercised poor judgment by deciding to resolve the federal investigation through the non-prosecution agreement and when he failed to make certain that the state of Florida intended to and would notify victims identified through the federal investigation about the state plea hearing.
In order to fully respect the rights and dignity of Jeffrey Epsteins many victims, the Department first invited victims and their legal representatives to be briefed this morning on the reports contents.
The Privacy Act prohibits the Department from releasing the full report publicly, but permits the report to be disclosed upon request to a congressional committee with jurisdiction over the matter, and this has been done.
We salute the courage of survivors as they again are confronted with these horrible crimes and their aftermath.
The Department will thoroughly review the report, which will inform our implementation of the Crime Victims Rights Act and the Attorney Generals Guidelines on Victim and Witness Assistance.
Attachment(s): Download epstein.
_executive_summary.
pdfComponent(s):Office of Professional ResponsibilityPress Release Number:20-1227
Updated November 12, 2020