https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/university-researcher-pleads-guilty-lying-grant-applications-develop-scientific-expertise
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, November 12, 2020
University Researcher Pleads Guilty to Lying on Grant Applications to Develop Scientific Expertise for China
A rheumatology professor and researcher with strong ties to China pleaded guilty to making false statements to federal authorities as part of an immunology research fraud scheme.
Song Guo Zheng, 58, of Hilliard, appeared in federal court today, at which time his guilty plea was accepted by Chief USA District Judge Algenon L.
Marbley.
Federal research funding is provided by the American tax payers for the benefit of American society  not as a subsidy for the Chinese Government, said Assistant Attorney General for National Security John Demers.
The American people deserve total transparency when federal dollars are being provided for research, and we will continue to hold accountable those who choose to lie about their foreign government affiliations in an attempt to fraudulently gain access to these funds.

The FBI and its partners are a unified front in protecting taxpayer-funded research, so there is no escape for those who break Americas laws.
Whether its a midnight flight through Alaska or hiding in plain sight, we will find you and bring you to justice, said Assistant Director Alan E.
Kohler, Jr.
of the FBIs Counterintelligence Division.
Zheng promised China he would enhance the countrys biomedical research.
He was preparing to flee the United States after he learned that his American employer had begun an administrative process into whether or not he was complying with American taxpayer-funded grant rules, said David M.
DeVillers, USA Attorney for the Southern District of Ohio.
Todays plea reinforces our proven commitment to protect our countrys position as a global leader in research and innovation, and to punish those who try to exploit and undermine that position.

The FBI and our law enforcement partners continue to engage with universities to protect sensitive research from being illegally transferred to foreign governments, stated FBI Cincinnati Special Agent in Charge Chris Hoffman.
Todays plea represents an acknowledgement by Zheng not only of his violation of the trust given to him by the USA Government in the form of federal grant funds, but also of norms for research integrity and an abuse of the openness and transparency in the USA academic system.

The purpose of reporting potential conflicts of interest is to protect the integrity of professional judgment and ensure the publics trust in the research being conducted, said Lamont Pugh III, Special Agent in Charge, USA Department of Health & Human Services, Office of Inspector General  Chicago Region.
This defendant violated that trust by failing to report his financial interests and affiliations with foreign parties in an effort to improperly obtain research grant funding through the National Institutes of Health.
The OIG is committed to identifying and investigating instances where individuals intentionally fail to report or falsify information regarding their sources of research support in order to ensure the proper use of taxpayer dollars.

As part of his plea, Zheng admitted he lied on applications in order to use approximately $4.1 million in grants from the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to develop Chinas expertise in the areas of rheumatology and immunology.
Zheng was a professor of internal medicine who led a team conducting autoimmune research at The Ohio State University and Pennsylvania State University.
According to his plea, Zheng caused materially false and misleading statements on NIH grant applications, seeking to hide his participation in Chinese Talent Plans and his affiliation and collaboration with a Chinese university controlled by the Chinese government.
Making false statements to the federal government is a crime punishable by up to five years in prison.
Zheng was arrested Friday, May 22, 2020, after he arrived in Anchorage, Alaska, aboard a charter flight and as he prepared to board another charter flight to China.
When he was arrested, he was carrying three large bags, one small suitcase and a briefcase containing two laptops, three cell phones, several USB drives, several silver bars, expired Chinese passports for his family, deeds for property in China and other items.
He was transported to the Southern District of Ohio and made his first federal court appearance in Columbus on July 7, 2020.
According to court documents, since 2013, Zheng had been participating in a Chinese Talent Plan, a program established by the Chinese government to recruit individuals with knowledge or access to foreign technology intellectual property.
Since that time, Zheng used research conducted in the United States to benefit the Peoples Republic of China.
Zheng failed to disclose conflicts of interest or his foreign commitments to his American employers or to the NIH.
This case was investigated by the FBI and Health and Human Services Office of the Inspector General.
Assistant United States Attorneys Douglas W.
Squires and S.
Courter Shimeall, Special Assistant United States Attorney Christopher N.
St.
Pierre, and Trial Attorney Matthew J.
McKenzie with the Department of Justices National Security Division are representing the United States in this case.
Topic(s):Counterintelligence and Export ControlNational SecurityComponent(s):National Security Division (NSD)USAO - Ohio, SouthernPress Release Number:20-1224
Updated December 1, 2020