https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/justice-department-sues-block-visas-proposed-acquisition-plaid
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, November 5, 2020
Justice Department Sues to Block Visas Proposed Acquisition of Plaid
Acquisition Would Eliminate Nascent Competitor Plaid and Prevent Disruption of Visas Monopoly in Online Debit
Today, the Department of Justice filed a civil antitrust lawsuit to stop Visa Inc.
s $5.3 billion acquisition of Plaid Inc.
Visa is a monopolist in online debit services, charging consumers and merchants billions of dollars in fees each year to process online payments.
Plaid, a successful fintech firm, is developing a payments platform that would challenge Visas monopoly.
American consumers and business owners increasingly buy and sell goods and services online, and Visa  a monopolist in online debit services  has extracted billions of dollars from those transactions, said Assistant Attorney General Makan Delrahim of the Justice Departments Antitrust Division.
Now, Visa is attempting to acquire Plaid, a nascent competitor developing a disruptive, lower-cost option for online debit payments.
If allowed to proceed, the acquisition would deprive American merchants and consumers of this innovative alternative to Visa and increase entry barriers for future innovators.

According to the complaint, Plaid powers some of the most innovative fintech apps.
Plaids technology allows developers to plug into consumers various financial accounts, with consumer permission, to aggregate spending data, look up balances, and verify other personal financial data.
Plaid connects to 200 million consumer bank accounts and 11,000 USA banks.
Because it accesses data on behalf of so many fintech app customers, Plaid has become the leading financial data aggregation company in the United States.
Plaid is planning to leverage its connections to build a bank-linked payments network that would compete with Visa.
Plaids money movement platform would allow consumers to pay merchants directly from their bank accounts using bank credentials rather than a debit card.
Plaids established connections and technology uniquely positions it to enter the payments market and disrupt Visas monopoly.
The complaint alleges that Visas CEO viewed the acquisition as an insurance policy to protect against a threat to our important US debit business.
 This acquisition is the second-largest in Visas history, with an extraordinary price tag of $5.3 billion.
Visas CEO justified the deal to Visas Board of Directors as a strategic, not financial move, and noted that in part because our US debit business i[s] critical and we must always do what it takes to protect this business.
 Unless acquired, Visa feared that Plaid on their own or owned by a competitor [was] going to create some threat with a potential downside risk of $300-500M in our US debit business by 2024.
If Plaid remained free to develop its competing payment platform, then Visa may be forced to accept lower margins or not have a competitive offering.

Millions of American consumers and merchants depend on debit services to transact business online.
The complaint alleges that Visa has dominated online debit for years and has protected its monopoly with exclusionary tactics that have prevented rivals, including Mastercard, from expanding or entering.
The lawsuit alleges that Visas proposed acquisition of Plaid is a violation of both Section 2 of the Sherman Act and Section 7 of the Clayton Act.
The Department filed its lawsuit in the USA District Court for the Northern District of California.
Visa Inc.
is a Delaware corporation headquartered in Foster City, California.
Visa is a global payments company that operates the largest debit network in the United States.
Visas 2019 revenues were approximately $23 billion.
Plaid Inc.
is a Delaware corporation headquartered in San Francisco, California.
Plaid is a financial services company that operates the leading financial data aggregation platform in the United States.
In 2019, Plaid earned approximately $100 million in revenues.
Attachment(s): Download Filed Visa Plaid ComplaintComponent(s):Antitrust DivisionPress Release Number:20-1204
Updated November 5, 2020