https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/department-justice-awards-more-458-million-fight-violent-crime
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Monday, November 2, 2020
Department of Justice Awards More Than $458 Million to Fight Violent Crime
The Department of Justices Office of Justice Programs (OJP) today announced that it has awarded more than $458 million in grant funding to support state, local, and tribal law enforcement efforts to fight and prevent violent crime in jurisdictions across the United States.
One of the fundamental missions of government is to protect its citizens and safeguard the rule of law, said Attorney General William P.
Barr.
The Department of Justice will continue to meet this critical responsibility by doing everything within its power to help our state, local and tribal law enforcement and criminal justice partners fight crime and deliver justice on behalf of all Americans.

Violence has become a tragic reality in too many of Americas communities, said OJP Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Katharine T.
Sullivan.
Working with officials across the Trump Administration and with thousands of state, local and tribal crime-fighters across the country, the Department of Justice is leading the response to this urgent challenge.
OJP is pleased to make these resources available to support innovative, tested and diverse solutions to violent crime.

The funding announced today continues the Trump Administrations commitment to reducing crime and improving public safety.
In the two years before President Trump took office, America had experienced a precipitous rise in crime, particularly in serious violent crime.
The President elevated community safety to the top of his domestic agenda and crime rates have fallen steadily since.
Recent data from the FBI and the Bureau of Justice Statistics for 2019 show a drop in crime and serious victimization for the third year in a row.
However, a number of cities are experiencing conspicuous countertrends.
Todays grants will bolster crime-fighting efforts in those communities and in jurisdictions throughout the United States.
OJPs Bureau of Justice Assistance made 1,094 grants totaling more than $369 million to support a broad range of initiatives that support local, state and tribal governments in their efforts to prevent and reduce violent crime.
OJPs Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention awarded more than $10 million across 24 jurisdictions to intervene in and suppress youth gang activity as well as $1 million to the Institute for Intergovernmental Research to continue operating the National Gang Center.
OJPs National Institute of Justice awarded $7.3 million to fund research and evaluation on the prevention and reduction of violent crime.
OJPs Bureau of Justice Statistics provided more than $69 million to strengthen the quality and accessibility of records within the National Instant Criminal Background Check System.
A list of the awards is availablehere.
The Office of Justice Programs, directed by Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Katharine T.
Sullivan, provides federal leadership, grants, training and technical assistance, and other resources to improve the nations capacity to prevent and reduce crime, assist victims and enhance the rule of law by strengthening the criminal and juvenile justice systems.
More information about OJP and its components can be found athttps://www.
ojp.gov.
Topic(s):GrantsViolent CrimeComponent(s):Office of Justice Programs (OJP)Office of the Attorney GeneralPress Release Number:20-1,191
Updated November 2, 2020