https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/louisiana-man-sentenced-arson-three-african-american-churches
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Monday, November 2, 2020
Louisiana Man Sentenced for Arson of Three African-American Churches
Holden Matthews, 23, was sentenced today in the Western District of Louisiana to 300 months imprisonment followed by three years of supervised release for intentionally setting fire to three African-American Baptist churches because of the religious character of those buildings.
Matthewswas also ordered to pay restitution of $590,246 to St.
Mary Baptist Church, $970,213.30 to Greater Union Baptist Church, and $1,100,000 to MountPleasant Baptist Church.
Specifically, Matthews was sentenced on three counts of violating the Church Arson Prevention Act, 18 USAC.
 247(a)(1)  one count for each church  as well as one count of using fire to commit a federal felony, in violation of 18 USAC.
 844(h).
The fires, which Matthews set over a 10-day period in March and April of 2019, completely destroyed each of the church buildings.
Matthews pled guilty to these charges on Feb.
10, 2020.
At his plea hearing, Matthews admitted that, between March 26 and April 4, 2019, he intentionally set fire to three Baptist churches with predominantly African-American congregations in the Opelousas, Louisiana area.
First, on March 26, 2019, Matthews set fire to St.
Mary Baptist Church in Port Barre, Louisiana.
Next, on April 2, 2019, Matthews set fire to the Greater Union Baptist Church, in Opelousas, Louisiana.
Then, on April 4, 2019, Matthews set fire to the Mount Pleasant Baptist Church in Opelousas, Louisiana.
The fires Matthews set destroyed each of the church buildings.
Matthews admitted to setting the fires because of the religious character of these buildings, in an effort to raise his profile as a Black Metal musician by copying similar crimes committed in Norway in the 1990s.
Matthews further admitted that, after setting the third fire, he posted photographs and videos on Facebook that showed the first two churches burning.
Matthews admitted that he had taken these photographs and videos in real time on his cell phone, as he watched those churches burn, and that he had posted them to Facebook in an effort to promote himself in the Black Metal community.
These churches trace their origins to the post-Civil War Reconstruction period and, for generations, were a place for predominantly African American Christians to gather, pray, worship, and celebrate their faith, said Assistant Attorney General Eric Dreiband of the Civil Rights Division.
The churches survived for nearly 150 years but did not survive this defendants warped act of hatred.
I extend my sympathy to the victims of this defendants arson spree, the congregants of Saint Mary Baptist Church, Greater Union Baptist Church, and Mount Pleasant Baptist Church.
The Justice Department will continue vigorously to protect their right to worship and live in peace.
The Justice Department stands against these acts of hate and the sentence handed down today reflects that.
We will continue to protect the civil right of Americans to freedom of worship without fear of persecution.

The members of St.
Mary Baptist Church, Greater Union Baptist Church, and Mount Pleasant Baptist Church are the ones who have suffered the most from these heinous crimes and have lost not only physical buildings, but sentimental items that cannot be replaced, said Acting USA Attorney Alexander C.
Van Hook of the Western District of Louisiana.
The sentence handed down today will not bring their churches back but should send a clear message that there is a high price to pay for this type of destruction and violence and these type of crimes will not be tolerated by this office.

ATF, working alongside our law enforcement partners, was able to bring our expertise and resources to investigate the arsons that threatened the well-being of St.
Landry Parish, said Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) New Orleans Field Division Special Agent in Charge Kurt Thielhorn.
That collaborative effort led to a successful investigation and todays sentencing of Holden Matthews, and allows the residents of St.
Landry Parish to continue to worship without fear of an arsonist in their midst.

A cornerstone of our constitution is the Freedom of Religion and the right to practice your faith freely and without intimidation, said FBI New Orleans Special Agent in Charge Bryan Vorndran.
Matthewss acts of threatening and intimidating an entire community by setting fire to three historically African American churches were unspeakable.
We hope that todays sentencing brings a level of comfort and satisfaction that justice has prevailed for the parishioners of St.
Mary Baptist Church, Greater Union Baptist Church, and Mount Pleasant Baptist Church as well as for all of the citizens of St.
Landry Parish affected by these heinous acts.

This case was investigated by the ATFs National Response Team; the Lafayette Satellite Office of the ATFs New Orleans Field Division; the Lafayette Resident Agency of the FBIs New Orleans Field Office; the Louisiana Office of State Fire Marshal; the Louisiana State Police; the Louisiana Bureau of Investigations Cyber Crimes Unit; the St.
Landry Parish Fire Department; and the St.
Landry Parish Sheriffs Office.
This case is being prosecuted by Assistant USA Attorney John Luke Walker, of the USA Attorneys Office for the Western District of Louisiana, and Trial Attorney Risa Berkower, of the Justice Departments Civil Rights Division.
Topic(s):Civil RightsComponent(s):Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF)Civil Rights DivisionCivil Rights - Criminal SectionFederal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)USAO - Louisiana, WesternPress Release Number:20-1196
Updated November 19, 2020