https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/ongoing-investigation-violent-white-supremacist-gang-results-rico-indictment-and-additional
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, October 28, 2020
Ongoing Investigation into Violent White Supremacist Gang Results in Rico Indictment and Additional Charges against Members and Associates
New Charges Include Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations (RICO) Conspiracy, Assault and Kidnapping in Aid of Racketeering, and Accessory to Murder
The Justice Department announced today that additional charges have been brought in a superseding indictment against members and associates of a white supremacist gang known as the 1488s.
The 1488s have been charged as a criminal organization that was involved in narcotics distribution, arson, obstruction of justice, and acts of violence including murder, assault, and kidnapping.
Acting Assistant Attorney General Brian C.
Rabbitt of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, USA Attorney Bryan Schroder of the District of Alaska, Special Agent in Charge Robert Britt of the FBIs Anchorage Field Office, and Alaska State Trooper Captain David Hanson, Commander of the Alaska Bureau of Investigation, made the announcement.
Two new defendants were added to the recently unsealed superseding indictment.
Felicia King, 55, of Wasilla, Alaska, was charged with accessory after the fact for her role in the August 2017 beating, kidnapping, and murder of Michael Staton, aka Steak Knife.

Justin Eaton, aka Skulls 45, of Anchorage, Alaska, who had been previously charged in a separate indictment as a felon in possession of a firearm, was charged with RICO conspiracy, kidnapping and assault for his role in the April 2, 2017, beating of a former 1488 member.
Original defendants Filthy Fuhrer, (formerly Timothy Lobdell), 42; Roy Naughton, aka Thumper, 40; Glen Baldwin, aka Glen Dog, 37; Craig King, aka Oakie, 53; and Colter ODell, 26, were all charged in a RICO Conspiracy.
Fuhrer and Naughton also face additional charges for federal kidnapping, as well as kidnapping and assault in aid of racketeering for incidents occurring in April and July of 2017.
In the original indictment, Fuhrer, Naughton, Baldwin, King, ODell, and Beau Cook, 32, were charged with murder in aid of racketeering, kidnapping in aid of racketeering, assault in aid of racketeering, kidnapping, and conspiracy to commit assault and kidnapping in aid of racketeering.
Two other key members, Nicholas M.
Kozorra, aka Beast, 29, and Dustin J.
Clowers, 34, previously pleaded guilty to murder in aid of racketeering in unsealed court documents.
Additionally, Cook has pleaded guilty to kidnapping for his role in the Staton homicide.
According to the superseding indictment, the 1488s are a violent prison-based gang operating inside and outside of state prisons throughout Alaska and elsewhere.
The 1488s employed Nazi-derived symbols to identify themselves and their affiliation with the gang.
The most coveted tattoo of 1488s members was the 1488s patch (an Iron Cross superimposed over a Swastika), which could be worn only by made members who generally gained full membership by committing an act of violence on behalf of the gang.
According to the indictment, as part of their operations, 1488s members and associates engaged in illegal activities under the protection of the enterprise, including narcotics trafficking, weapons trafficking, and other illegal activities to promote the influence of the gang.
The 1488s allegedly had an organizational structure, which is outlined in written rules widely distributed to members throughout Alaska and elsewhere.
Members of the 1488s allegedly acted in different roles in order to further the goals of their organization, including bosses who had ultimate authority in all gang matters.
Key holders were allegedly responsible for all gang matters within penal facilities where 1488s had a presence, and in free world Alaska (outside of prison).
Enforcers were allegedly responsible for enforcing the rules and performing tasks as assigned by higher-ranking gang members.
Prospects for membership were required to familiarize themselves with Nazi-inspired white supremacist ideology.
Violence against law enforcement was also a means of gaining standing within the 1488s.
Female associates of the gang were referred to as lady-eights.
In or about 2016, Fuhrer allegedly became more aggressive in his efforts to impose discipline within the gang.
He allegedly believed that members who were defying the 1488 code of conduct were diminishing the power and influence of the gang.
As outlined in the superseding indictment, this culminated in the kidnapping and assault of former members on April 2, 2017, and July 20, 2017, and the kidnapping, assault, and murder of Staton on Aug.
3, 2017.
These acts were allegedly ordered by leadership of the 1488s acting from within and from outside of the prison system.
The charges in the indictment are merely allegations, and the defendants are presumed innocent until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law.
The FBIs Safe Streets Task Force, and the Alaska State Troopers, Alaska Bureau of Investigation, investigated this case in conjunction with the District of Alaska USA Attorneys Offices Organized Crime Division and the Criminal Divisions Organized Crime and Gang Section (OCGS).
Investigative Assistance was provided by IRS Criminal Investigation; the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives; the USA Postal Inspection Service, the USA Marshals Service, USA Immigration and Customs Enforcements Homeland Security Investigations, Anchorage Police Department (APD), and the State of Alaskas Department of Corrections.
This case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorney Chad McHenry of OCGS and Assistant USA Attorneys William Taylor, James Klugman, and Chris Schroeder of the District of Alaska.
The charges in the indictments are merely allegations, and the defendants are presumed innocent until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law.
The year 2020 marks the 150th anniversary of the Department of Justice.
Learn more about the history of our agency at www.
Justice.gov/Celebrating150Years.
Attachment(s): Download Fuhrer et al Superseding IndictmentTopic(s):Violent CrimeComponent(s):Criminal DivisionCriminal - Organized Crime and Gang SectionUSAO - AlaskaPress Release Number:20-1179
Updated October 28, 2020