https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/afghan-national-arrested-2008-abduction-american-journalist
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, October 28, 2020
Afghan National Arrested for 2008 Abduction of American Journalist
The Department of Justice announced the unsealing of a federal indictment charging Haji Najibullah, a/k/a Najibullah Naim, a/k/a Abu Tayeb, a/k/a Atiqullah with six counts related to the 2008 kidnapping of an American journalist and two Afghan nationals.
Najibullah, 44, was arrested and transferred to the United States from Ukraine to face the charges in the indictment.
Najibullah will be presented today before USA Magistrate Judge Ona T.
Wang.
The case is assigned to USA District Judge Katherine Polk Failla.
Najibullah is charged with taking an American journalist and others hostage in Afghanistan in November 2008.
Journalists risk their lives bringing us news from conflict zones, and no matter how much time may pass, our resolve to find and hold accountable those who target and harm them and other Americans will never wane, said Assistant Attorney General for National Security John C.
Demers.
The defendant, like many others before and surely others to come, will now face justice in an American courtroom.

Acting USA Attorney Audrey Strauss said: Nearly 12 years ago, the defendant arranged to kidnap at gunpoint an American journalist and two other men, and held them hostage for more than seven months, said Acting USA Attorney for the Southern District of New York Audrey Strauss.
The prosecution of Haji Najibullah shows that law enforcement will never stop in our mission to hold accountable those who commit violent crimes against American citizens.

Whether someone commits a violent act against an American citizen here at home or overseas, well never stop aggressively pursuing charges against them and, when necessary, seeking their transfer to USA custody, said FBI Assistant Director-in-Charge of the New York Office of the FBI William F.
Sweeney Jr.
Najibullahs reprehensible actions over a decade ago earned him a flight to the USA yesterday.
Today he arrived in USA federal court to face our justice system.

The FBI, along with our partners, continue to work tirelessly in the pursuit of justice and to hold accountable those who are responsible for the kidnapping and hostage taking of USA citizens abroad, said Assistant Director Jill Sanborn of the FBIs Counterterrorism Division.
We remain steadfast in our obligation to see justice served, regardless of the how long it may take or where those individuals are located.
Thisinvestigation and resultingindictment reflects the FBIs perseverance and commitment to the victims of these heinous acts  We never forget, and we never give up.

Haji Najibullahs alleged kidnapping of a United States journalist and two Afghan nationals was a crime against America, a crime against the freedom of the press, and against the integral work of shining a light on important international affairs, said Police Commissioner Shea.
While todays federal indictment reflects events that occurred a dozen years ago, it shows once again that the FBI-NYPD Joint Terrorism Task Force and all of our law enforcement partners will wait as long and go as far as it takes to bring justice.

According to the Indictment:[1]
On or about Nov.
10, 2008, Najibullah and his co-conspirators, armed with machineguns, kidnapped an American journalist (Victim-1) and two Afghan nationals who were assisting Victim-1 (Victim-2 and Victim-3) at gunpoint in Afghanistan.
Approximately five days later, on or about Nov.
15, 2008, Najibullah and his co-conspirators forced the three hostages to hike across the border from Afghanistan to Pakistan, where Najibullah and his co-conspirators detained the hostages.
For the next seven months, Najibullah and his co-conspirators held the hostages captive in Pakistan.
During their captivity, Najibullah and his co-conspirators forced the victims to make numerous calls and videos seeking help.
For example, on or about Nov.
19, 2008, while in Pakistan, Najibullah and a co-conspirator (CC-1) directed Victim-1 to call his wife in New York.
In addition, Najibullah and his co-conspirators made the victims create at least three videos in which they begged for help while surrounded by masked guards armed with machineguns.
In one of the videos, Victim-1  the American journalist  was forced to beg for his life while a guard pointed a machinegun at Victim-1s face.
Najibullah, 44, of Afghanistan is charged with hostage taking, conspiracy to commit hostage taking, kidnapping, conspiracy to commit kidnapping, and two counts of using and possessing a machinegun in furtherance of crimes of violence.
Each of the six counts of the indictment carry a maximum sentence of life in prison.
The maximum potential sentences in this case are prescribed by Congress and are provided here for informational purposes only, as any sentencing of the defendants will be determined by a judge.
Ms.
Strauss and Mr.
Demers praised the outstanding efforts of the FBIs New York Joint Terrorism Task Force.
They also thanked the New York and New Jersey Port Authority Police, the Counterterrorism Section of the Department of Justices National Security Division, the Legal Attach Office/USA Embassy Kyiv and the FBIs Counterterrorism Division for its assistance with this investigation, as well as the Ukrainian authorities and the Office of International Affairs of the Justice Departments Criminal Division for their assistance in the extradition.
This prosecution is being handled by the Terrorism and International Narcotics Unit.
Assistant USA Attorneys Sam Adelsberg, Sidhardha Kamaraju, and Michael Kim Krouse are in charge of the prosecution, with assistance from Trial Attorney Jennifer Burke of the Counterterrorism Section.
The charges contained in the indictment are merely accusations, and the defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty.
[1] As the introductory phrase signifies, the entirety of the text of the Indictment and the description of the Indictment set forth below constitute only allegations, and every fact described should be treated as an allegation.
Attachment(s): Download u.
s.
_v.
_haji_najibullah_et_al.
_indictment_pdfTopic(s):CounterterrorismNational SecurityComponent(s):National Security Division (NSD)USAO - New York, SouthernPress Release Number:20-1174
Updated October 28, 2020