https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/arrests-made-conspiracy-illegally-manufacture-firearms
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, October 27, 2020
Arrests Made in Conspiracy to Illegally Manufacture Firearms
On Oct.
20, 2020, three co-conspirators were arrested on the federal charge of conspiracy to unlawfully manufacture, possess, and distribute various weapons, ammunition, and suppressors.
Liam Montgomery Collins, 21, and Paul James Kryscuk, 35, recently of Boise, Idaho, were charged via an indictment, while Jordan Duncan, 25, currently residing in Boise, was charged via a complaint, both obtained in the Eastern District of North Carolina.
Collins and Duncan are former Marines assigned previously to Camp Lejeune in Jacksonville, North Carolina.
According to court documents, Liam Montgomery Collins, 21, and his co-defendant, Paul James Kryscuk, 35, from Boise, used the conspiracy to enrich themselves and others by manufacturing and selling hard to obtain firearms and firearm parts in a manner that would hide these purchases from the federal government.
From May 2019 to the present, Collins made multiple money transfers through his personal account to Kryscuk to purchase firearms to include a 9mm pistol and suppressor and a short barrel rifle.
In turn, Kryscuk purchased items from vendors to manufacture the firearms and suppressors.
In furtherance of the crime, Kryscuk, using an alias, mailed the manufactured weapons from Idaho to Jacksonville, North Carolina.
Kryscuk also shipped the short barrel rifle, not registered as required by the federal government, to Collins.
Duncan was aware of and participated in the conspiracy.
Collins and Kryscuk are charged with violating 18 USAC.
 371, conspiracy to manufacture firearms and ship them interstate, 18 USAC.
 922(a) (3) and 2, interstate transportation of firearms without a license, and 26 USAC.
 5841, 5861(j), and 5871 and 2, interstate transportation of a firearm not registered as required.
They each face a maximum penalty of a combined 20 years in prison if convicted; Duncan, charged with violating 18 USAC.
 371, conspiracy to manufacture firearms and ship them interstate (18 USAC.
 922(a) (3)), faces a maximum of five years in prison.
Probable cause and detention hearings for defendant Duncan are scheduled before the United States District Court for the District of Idaho on October 27, 2020 at 10:00 a.
m.
mountain time; detention hearing for Kryscuk is scheduled to follow at 11:30 a.
m.
The Public may listen at 1-669-254-5252, Meeting ID: 160 127 6280 Passcode: 998153.
Public Shall MUTE their end during hearing.
Persons granted remote access to proceedings are reminded of the general prohibition under federal law and Local Rule 83.1 against photographing, recording, and rebroadcasting of court proceedings.
An indictment is merely an accusation.
The defendants are presumed innocent until proven guilty.
The announcement of the charges was made byRobert J.
Higdon, Jr.
, USA Attorney for the Eastern District of North Carolina following the unsealing of the charges.
The Naval Criminal Investigative Service, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Boise Police Department, the United States Postal Inspection Service, Homeland Security Investigations, and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, are investigating the case.
Assistant USA Attorneys from the Eastern District of North Carolina are prosecuting the case for the government with assistance from Assistant USA Attorneys for the District of Idaho.
Topic(s):National SecurityComponent(s):National Security Division (NSD)USAO - North Carolina, EasternPress Release Number:20-1157
Updated October 27, 2020