https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/riverside-california-man-who-admitted-planning-mass-casualty-attacks-and-purchasing-firearms
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, October 23, 2020
Riverside, California Man Who Admitted Planning Mass Casualty Attacks and Purchasing Firearms Later Used in 2015 Terrorist Attack in San Bernardino Ordered to Serve 20-Year Federal Prison Sentence
A Riverside man was sentenced today to 20 years in federal prison for conspiring to commit terrorist attacks in the Inland Empire and for providing assault rifles later used in the 2015 San Bernardino terrorist attack that killed 14 people.
Enrique Marquez Jr.
, 28, was sentenced today by USA District Judge Jesus Bernal.
Todays sentencing concludes a case in which Marquez pleaded guilty in 2017 to conspiracy to provide material support and resources to terrorists, in violation of 18 USAC.
 2339A.
In the plea agreement and in open court, Marquez admitted that he conspired with Syed Rizwan Farook in 2011 and 2012 to attack Riverside City College (RCC) and commuter traffic on the 91 Freeway.
Marquez also pleaded guilty to making false statements in connection with the acquisition of firearms, in violation of 18 USAC.
 922 (a)(6), by serving as the straw buyer of two assault rifles that he provided to Farook.
More than three years later, Farook and his wife used those rifles in the shooting rampage at the San Bernardino Inland Regional Center (IRC) on Dec.
2, 2015.
Hours later, both Farook and his wife were killed by law enforcement, ending what at the time was the worst terrorist attack on American soil since 9/11.
The investigation into the deadly shooting at the IRC quickly uncovered evidence that, in 2011 and 2012, Marquez purchased two rifles that Farook and his wife used in the IRC attack.
According to Marquezs plea agreement, Farook paid Marquez for the rifles.
Marquez also discussed with Farook the use of radio-controlled improvised explosive devices (IEDs) during the planned attacks on RCC and State Route 91.
Marquez admitted purchasing Christmas tree lightbulbs and a container of smokeless powder for use in manufacturing IEDs.
Prosecutors argued in a sentencing memorandum filed last week that Marquez was a full, willing, and motivated participant of the conspiracy who not only provided the agreement necessary for the conspiracy to attack RCC and SR-91, but also co-designed the attacks with Farook, purchased the two firearms and ammunition to facilitate the attacks, researched bomb making and obtained explosive powder and other bomb-making materials, and visited RCC and SR-91 to sketch out how he and Farook would attack the two locations to maximize casualties.

Marquez was arrested about two weeks after the IRC terrorist attack and has remained in custody ever since his first court appearance on Dec.
17, 2015.
In imposing todays sentence, Judge Bernal denied Marquezs request for a five-year sentence, which essentially would have been a time-served sentence that soon would have resulted in his release from custody.
In court documents, prosecutors called this request an attempt to downplay the seriousness of his actions, and skirt that his actions contributed to the mass killing and injuring of innocent people in San Bernardino just a few years later.

The case against Marquez was the result of an investigation by several members of the Inland Empire Joint Terrorism Task Force, including agents and detectives from the FBI; the San Bernardino Police Department; the San Bernardino County Sheriffs Department; the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF); Homeland Security Investigations; the Riverside County Sheriffs Department; the San Bernardino County District Attorneys Office; the Chino Police Department; the Redlands Police Department; the Ontario Police Department; the Corona Police Department; and the Riverside Police Department.
The case against Marquez was prosecuted by Assistant USA Attorneys Christopher D.
Grigg, Chief of the National Security Division; Melanie Sartoris of the General Crimes Section; and Julius J.
Nam of the Riverside Branch Office.
The National Security Divisions Counterterrorism Section at the Department of Justice provided substantial assistance.
Also as a result of the investigation into the IRC attack, three people have pleaded guilty to being part of a sham marriage scheme in which a Russian woman married Marquez to obtain immigration benefits.
Syed Raheel Farook, the brother of IRC attacker Syed Rizwan Farook; Tatiana Farook, who is Syed Raheel Farooks wife; and Mariya Chernykh, who is Tatiana Farooks sister, pleaded guilty to immigration fraud charges and admitted being part of conspiracy in which Chernykh paid Marquez to enter into a bogus marriage.
The three defendants in the marriage fraud case are scheduled to be sentenced early next year.
In another case stemming from the investigation, the mother of Syed Rizwan Farook pleaded guilty in March to a federal criminal charge of intending to impede the federal criminal investigation by shredding a map her son made in connection with the attack.
Rafia Sultana Shareef, a.
k.
a.
Rafia Farook, of Corona, is currently scheduled to be sentenced by Judge Bernal on November 16.
Topic(s):CounterterrorismNational SecurityComponent(s):National Security Division (NSD)USAO - California, CentralPress Release Number:20-1154
Updated October 23, 2020