https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/united-states-seizes-more-domain-names-used-foreign-terrorist-organization
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, October 21, 2020
United States Seizes More Domain Names Used by  Foreign Terrorist Organization
The United States has seized Aletejahtv.
com and kataibhezbollah.
com, two websites that were unlawfully utilized by Kataib Hizballah, a Specially Designated National and a Foreign Terrorist Organization.
Seizures like these are critical to preventing designated entities and terrorist organizations from using USA websites to recruit new members and promote their twisted world views, said Assistant Attorney General for National Security John C.
Demers.
While this case is a reminder that terrorists dont need to step foot in our country to further their aims, todays actions show that the Department will do what it takes to stop them.

We will be steadfast in protecting our electronic infrastructure and commerce system from use by terrorist groups, said USA Attorney Byung J.
BJay Pak of the Northern District of Georgia.
This seizure shows that we will continue to leverage our national reach to stop these groups from using USA-based resources to further their terrorist agenda.

The internet is continuously updating with new threats to our nations safety, but we will continue to rise and meet this challenge, said G.
Zachary Terwilliger, USA Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia.
The success of this seizure should serve as a message to others that would threaten the safety of our communities: We will continue to fight terror groups and their propaganda no matter the domain.

The Bureau of Industry and Securitys Office of Export Enforcement will continue to aggressively disrupt Iranian backed terrorist organizations such as Kataib Hizballah from utilizing USA based online networks and services in violation of USA law, said P.
Lee Smith, Performing the Non-exclusive Functions and Duties of the Assistant Secretary for Export Enforcement at the Department of Commerce.
The Bureau of Industry and Security is committed to protecting our war fighters and Allied Forces from terrorist acts of violence inspired and directed via online networks.

On July 2, 2009, the USA Secretary of Treasury designated Kataib Hizballah, an Iran-backed terrorist group active in Iraq, as a Specially Designated National for committing, directing, supporting, and posing a significant risk of committing acts of violence against Coalition and Iraqi Security Forces.
On the same day, the USA Department of State designated Kataib Hizballah as a Foreign Terrorist Organization for committing or posing a significant risk of committing acts of terrorism.
On Aug.
31, 2020, pursuant to a seizure warrant in the District of Arizona, the United States seized Aletejahtv.
com and Aletejahtv.
org.
 Aletejahtv.
com and Aletejahtv.
org, acted as Kataib Hizballahs media arm and published internet communications such as videos, articles, and photographs.
These communications included numerous articles designed to further Kataib Hizballahs agenda, particularly destabilizing Iraq and recruiting others to join their cause.
They also functioned as a live online television broadcast channel, Al-etejah TV.
 Portions of the communications expressly noted that they were published by Kataib Hizballah.
Within weeks, federal agents located the content from Aletejahtv.
com and Aletejahtv.
org on Aletejahtv.
com and kataibhezbollah.
com, including the Kataib Hizballah flag and the words Islamic Resistance, Kataib Hizbollah.
 The content even included false information about COVID-19 designed to damage perception of the United States in the minds of Iraqi citizens and to destabilize the region to the benefit of Iran.
Federal law prohibits designated entities like Kataib Hizballah from obtaining or utilizing goods or services, including website and domain services, in the United States without a license from the Office of Foreign Assets Control.
Aletejahtv.
com and kataibhezbollah.
com are domain names that are owned and operated by a United States company based in Reston, Virginia.
Kataib Hizballah did not obtain a license from the Office of Foreign Assets Control prior to utilizing the domain names.
On Oct.
14, 2020, pursuant to a seizure warrant issued in the Eastern District of Virginia, the United States seized Aletejahtv.
com and kataibhezbollah.
com.
 Visitors to the site received the following message:
This seizure was investigated by the Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry and Security.
Assistant USA Attorneys from the Northern District of Georgia, Assistant USA Attorneys from the Eastern District of Virginia, and trial lawyers from the Department of Justice National Security Division prosecuted the seizure.
Topic(s):Counterintelligence and Export ControlCounterterrorismNational SecurityComponent(s):National Security Division (NSD)USAO - Georgia, NorthernUSAO - Virginia, EasternPress Release Number:20-1135
Updated October 21, 2020