https://www.justice.gov/opa/speech/deputy-assistant-attorney-general-alexander-okuliar-delivers-remarks-announcement-us-v
Deputy Assistant Attorney General Alexander Okuliar Delivers Remarks at the Announcement of USA v.
Google
Washington, DCUnited States
~
Tuesday, October 20, 2020
Remarks as Prepared for Delivery
The investigation of Google over the last 16 months has involved a large team of Division lawyers, economists, paralegals and other critical personnelin fact, it was one of the largest such teams in the Divisions recent history.
I would like to thank all of them for their hard work and dedication.
Mobilizing such a historic team requires resources and support from across the Department of Justice.
So, on behalf of the Antitrust Division, I would like to thank the entire Department, the Attorney General, and Deputy Attorney General Rosen, for your unwavering support of this important matter.
While we have done much work to get to this point, in some ways our work on this case is just beginning.
As we move to court, the Division has tremendous confidence in the exceptional and hardworking litigation team led by Ken Dintzer, one of the Departments most experienced and talented trial lawyers.
In addition, as the Deputy Attorney General stated, our case against Google is the first public action to come out of our market-wide review of competition in digital markets.
But our work in this space continues.
The digital markets review is a top priority for us because, as Americans shift more of their daily lives online, they are increasingly vulnerable to possible harm from digital monopolists.
The women and men of the Antitrust Division are working tirelessly to identify and stop any anticompetitive conduct.
We are dedicated to protecting consumers and making the internet an innovative and vibrant commercial forum for every American.
Thank you.
Speaker:Alexander Okuliar, Former Deputy Assistant Attorney GeneralAttachment(s): Download Okuliar_Remarks_at_Announcement_of_US_v_Google.
pdfTopic(s):AntitrustComponent(s):Antitrust Division
Updated November 12, 2020