https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/prison-official-charged-accepting-bribes-and-smuggling-contraband-correctional-institution
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, October 20, 2020
Prison Official Charged with Accepting Bribes and Smuggling Contraband into Correctional Institution
A federal grand jury sitting in the Eastern District of North Carolina returned an indictment on Oct.
14 charging a North Carolina Department of Public Safety official with a bribery and smuggling scheme that funneled drugs and other contraband into Caledonia Correctional Institution.
Acting Assistant Attorney General Brian C.
Rabbitt of the Justice Departments Criminal Division and Special Agent in Charge Robert R.
Wells of the FBIs Charlotte Field Office made the announcement.
Ollie Rose III, 61, of Pleasant Hill, North Carolina, was charged with one count of conspiring to use a facility in interstate commerce in furtherance of unlawful activity, five counts of extortion under color of official right, one count of attempted possession with intent to distribute a controlled substance, and four counts of possession with intent to distribute a controlled substance.
He made his initial appearance today before USA Magistrate Judge Kimberly A.
Swank.
According to the indictment, Rose, a case manager at Caledonia Correctional Institution, used his position as a public official to smuggle contraband, including marijuana, tobacco, and synthetic cannabinoids, into the prison for inmates.
The indictment alleges that in exchange for smuggling illegal drugs and other contraband, Rose received payments ranging from $500 to $1,200 in cash or via a mobile application.
Rose is alleged to have engaged in the smuggling scheme from at least November 2018 through October 2020.
An indictment is not a finding of guilt.
It merely alleges that crimes have been committed.
A defendant is presumed innocent until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt.
The case was investigated by the FBI andthe North Carolina Department of Public Safety.
The case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorneys Rebecca M.
Schuman and Lauren E.
Britsch of the Criminal Divisions Public Integrity Section.
The year 2020 marks the 150th anniversary of the Department of Justice.
Learn more about the history of our agency at www.
Justice.gov/Celebrating150Years.
Attachment(s): Download Rose IndictmentTopic(s):Public CorruptionComponent(s):Criminal DivisionCriminal - Public Integrity SectionFederal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)Press Release Number:20-1129
Updated October 20, 2020