https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/six-defendants-charged-scheme-defraud-student-loan-programs
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, October 20, 2020
Six Defendants Charged in Scheme to Defraud Student Loan Programs
Six former administrators from the Columbus, Georgia, campus of the Apex School of Theology were charged in an indictment unsealed Monday for their alleged participation in a scheme to defraud student loan programs.
Acting Assistant Attorney General Brian C.
Rabbitt of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, USA Attorney Charles Peeler of the Middle District of Georgia, Special Agent in Charge J.
C.
Hacker of the FBIs Atlanta Division, Special Agent in Charge Neil Sanchez of the Department of Educations Office of Inspector General (DOE-OIG), and Special Agent in Charge James E.
Dorsey, of the IRS Criminal Investigations (IRS-CI) Atlanta Division made the announcement.
According to the indictment, Erica Montgomery, 47, of Ft.
Mitchell, Alabama, Sandra Anderson, 61, of Columbus, Georgia, Leo Frank Thomas, 54, of Columbus, Georgia, Yolanda Thomas, 50, of Columbus, Georgia, Dorothy Webb, 68, of Las Vegas, Nevada, and Kristina Parker, 33, of Stone Mountain, Georgia, were charged by a federal grand jury in the Middle District of Georgia with one count of conspiracy, five counts of mail fraud, and five counts of financial aid fraud.
Anderson and Montgomery were also charged with money laundering.
The indictment alleges that the defendants engaged in a scheme to operate an off-site learning center in Columbus, Georgia, on behalf of Apex, a now-defunct school offering programs in theology and other subjects.
As part of the scheme, the defendants allegedly recruited individuals with offers of free money to act as fake students and fraudulently apply for federal financial aid.
The indictment alleges that these students were told that they did not have to do any work or attend classes, but they would have to split their financial aid with the defendants, who used federal financial aid funds to personally enrich themselves.
The indictment further alleges that the defendants submitted plagiarized work for the students, took their tests, and logged on to the schools web site as if they were the students to deceive the DOE into believing they were real students making adequate academic progress.
The defendants falsified admission packets and applied for federal financial aid in the names of the students, falsely certifying that they were the student and that the financial aid would be used for educational purposes.
Instead, the financial aid was used to enrich the recruited students and the defendants.
An indictment is merely an allegation, and all defendants are presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty in a court of law.
The FBIs Atlanta Division, DOE-OIG, and IRS-CIs Atlanta Division investigated this matter.
Senior Litigation Counsel David A.
Bybee of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section and Assistant USA Attorney Crawford Seals of the Middle District of Georgia are prosecuting the case.
The year 2020 marks the 150th anniversary of the Department of Justice.
Learn more about the history of our agency atwww.
Justice.gov/Celebrating150Years.
Attachment(s): Download Anderson et al IndictmentTopic(s):Financial FraudComponent(s):Criminal DivisionCriminal - Criminal Fraud SectionUSAO - Georgia, MiddlePress Release Number:20-1125
Updated October 21, 2020