https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/justice-department-awards-over-54-million-support-wellness-and-safety-law-enforcement
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, October 16, 2020
Justice Department Awards Over $54 Million to Support Wellness and Safety of Law Enforcement Officers
The Department of Justices Office of Justice Programs today announced it has awarded funding totaling over $54 million to provide services that protect officers and improve overall public safety.
OJPs Bureau of Justice Assistance awarded grants to law enforcement departments, local jurisdictions, and training and technical assistance organizations throughout the United States.
The FBIs official crime data for 2019, the most recent available, reflects a decrease in the number of law enforcement officers killed feloniously between 2018 and 2019, from 43 to 32 killed as of September 30, 2019.
The number of law enforcement officers reported accidentally killed in 2019 decreased slightly from 33 to 29 in the same reporting period.
Additionally, officers experienced nearly 59,000 assaults in 2018.
The Office of Justice Programs stands proudly with the Attorney General and the President in our commitment to the health and safety of 700,000 sworn law enforcement professionals who selflessly place their lives in jeopardy to keep us all safe, said OJPs Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Katharine T.
Sullivan.
Bulletproof vests, body-worn cameras, professional training on wellness and safetythese resources, equipment and strategies will help officers do their jobs effectively, keep them safe from harm and protect their health.

More than $19 million will support the training and implementation of law enforcement agencies body-worn camera programs.
Almost $24 million will reimburse jurisdictions for up to 50 percent of the cost of body armor vests, while more than $11 million will support law enforcement safety and wellness programs, research and services.
A full list of the awards, organized under specific grant programs and listing awardees by state, is available here.
Additional information about Fiscal Year 2020 grant awards made by the Office of Justice Programs can be found online at the OJP Awards Data webpage.
The Office of Justice Programs, directed by Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Katharine T.
Sullivan, provides federal leadership, grants, training, technical assistance and other resources to improve the nations capacity to prevent and reduce crime,assist victims and enhance the rule of law by strengthening the criminal and juvenile justice systems.
More information about OJP and its components can be found at www.
ojp.gov.
Component(s):Office of Justice Programs (OJP)Press Release Number:20-1115
Updated October 16, 2020