https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/michigan-man-pleads-guilty-conspiring-defraud-irs-and-steal-crash-reports-detroit-police
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, October 15, 2020
Michigan Man Pleads Guilty to Conspiring to Defraud the IRS and to Steal Crash Reports from the Detroit Police Department
A Birmingham, Michigan, resident pleaded guilty today to conspiring to defraud the IRS and to steal from an organization receiving federal funds, announced Acting Deputy Assistant Attorney General Stuart M.
Goldberg of the Justice Departments Tax Division.
According to court documents, from at least July 2014 through April 2018, Mathew Schwartz, the owner and operator of the law firm Legal Genius P.
L.
L.
C.
, along with co-conspirators, took and distributed to other co-conspirators Detroit Police Department traffic crash reports, many of which were marked unapproved and not publicly available.
The co-conspirators then used their access to these illegally obtained reports to solicit crash victims for personal injury lawyers, chiropractors, healthcare professionals, and other businesses.
Court documents also show from 2015 through 2017, Schwartz took steps to obstruct and impede the IRS.
He diverted Legal Genius business income into his personal bank account, and paid individuals performing services for Legal Genius with checks made payable to cash, to assist those individuals with concealing their taxable income from the IRS and the Social Security Administration.
USA District Court Judge Matthew F.
Leitman scheduled sentencing for Schwartz for Feb.
18, 2021.
Schwartz faces a maximum of five years in prison on each count and a $250,000 fine for each of the conspiracy offenses.
Schwartz also faces a period of supervised release, restitution, and monetary penalties.
Acting Deputy Assistant Attorney General Goldberg thanked special agents of IRS-Criminal Investigation and the FBI, who conducted the investigation, and Tax Division Trial Attorney Mark McDonald of the Tax Division, who is prosecuting the case.
Additional information about the Tax Division and its enforcement efforts may be found on the divisions website.
Topic(s):Financial FraudTaxComponent(s):Tax DivisionPress Release Number:20-1111
Updated October 15, 2020