https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/twenty-four-defendants-including-alleged-aryan-circle-gang-members-and-associates-indicted
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, October 14, 2020
Twenty-Four Defendants, Including Alleged Aryan Circle Gang Members and Associates Indicted on Racketeering, Firearms, and Drug Charges in Multiple States
Five indictments in three different states were unsealed today indicting a total of twenty-four defendants, including alleged Aryan Circle (AC) gang members and associates, on charges of racketeering conspiracy, violent crimes in aid of racketeering, drug conspiracy, and unlawful firearms trafficking.
The indictments were announced by Acting Assistant Attorney General Brian C.
Rabbitt of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, USA Attorney Stephen J.
Cox of the Eastern District of Texas, USA Attorney Robert M.
Duncan, Jr.
of the Eastern District of Kentucky, and USA Attorney Mike Hurst of the Southern District of Mississippi.
These indictments are part of a larger investigation into the AC, Operation Noble Virtue, that has targeted AC leadership and has resulted in seventeen federal convictions in six jurisdictions to date.
One of the indictments in the Eastern District of Texas charges six alleged AC members and associates with a racketeering conspiracy that includes acts involving murder, five alleged AC members with assault resulting in serious bodily injury in aid of racketeering, and two alleged AC members with kidnapping and conspiracy to commit kidnapping in aid of racketeering.
Among those charged are alleged current and former high-ranking gang leaders including William Glenn Chunn, aka Big Head, 38, of Texas; Michael Martin, aka Aryan Prodigy, aka AP, 37, of Texas; Kevin Kent, aka Big Kev, 35, of Indiana; and Malachi David Wren, 51, of Texas.
Other alleged AC members charged include Jesse Paul Blankenship, aka JP, 39, of Missouri; Timothy Long, aka Timmy, 41, of Arkansas; Jeremy Chad Dennis, aka JD, 43, of Texas; Becky Westbrook, 49, of Mississippi; Rodney Holt, aka Turbo, 48, of Texas; Bobby Dayle Boney, aka Bear, 50, of Texas; and Glynnwood Derrick, 46, of Texas.
One additional defendant remains at large.
Another indictment in the Eastern District of Texas charges Rodney Holt, aka Turbo; as well as his associate who is not known to be an AC member, Eric Hoccheim, 39, of Texas, with five counts including firearms trafficking and conspiracy.
Operation Noble Virtue also resulted in a third indictment in the Eastern District of Texas, which charges Jeremy Klintman, aka Shamrock, 37, of Texas; Eulalio Torres-Cadenas, aka Yayo, 43, of Mexico; Shane Louque, 45, of Louisiana; and Breanna Beckley, 39, of Texas, with conspiracy to distribute controlled substances.
These defendants are not known to be afilliated with the AC.
The indictment in the Southern District of Mississippi charges William Glenn Chunn, aka Big Head; Aaron Matthew Rentfrow, aka Mongo, 40, of Indiana; Jeremy Chad Dennis, aka JD; and Johnathon Aaron Reynolds, 38, of Tennessee with violent crimes in aid of racketeering relating to the stabbing of an inmate at USP Yazoo.
That indictment also charges Daniel Wade Holler, aka Knucklehead, 34, of Texas, with accessory after the fact relating to the same attack.
The indictment in the Eastern District of Kentucky charges Mitchell Leon Farkas, aka Lifter, 51, of Louisiana; Jonathan Tucker Gober, aka Tucker, 36, of Texas; James Matthew Poole, aka Redwood, 35, of Texas; and Andrew Dwayne Tinlin, aka Tin, 39, of Iowa, with violent crimes in aid of racketeering relating to the stabbing of an inmate at USP Big Sandy.
According to court documents, the AC is a violent, racebased organization that operates inside federal prisons across the country and outside prisons in states including Texas, Arkansas, Louisiana, and Missouri.
The AC was established in the mid1980s within the Texas state prison system (TDCJ) after a period of turmoil within the Aryan Brotherhood of Texas (ABT) resulted in rejected and ex-ABT members creating the AC.
The AC was relatively small in comparison to other prisonbased gangs, but grew in stature and influence within TDCJ in the 1990s, largely through violent conflict with other gangs, white and non-white alike.
In recent years, the ACs structure and influence expanded outside of prisons to rural and suburban areas in numerous states.
Court records further indicate that the AC enforces its rules and promotes discipline among its members, prospects and associates through murder, attempted murder, assault, and threats against those who violate the rules or pose a threat to the organization.
Members, and oftentimes associates, are required to follow the orders of higher-ranking members without question.
The criminal acts charged in the indictments described above include shootings, stabbings, beatings, and patch-burnings, which are violent attacks that result in removal of a victims gang tattoo.
An indictment is merely an allegation.
The defendants are presumed innocent until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law
This case is being investigated by an Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force (OCDETF) consisting of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives; Drug Enforcement Administration; Federal Bureau of Prisons; Texas Department of Public Safety; Houston Police Department-Gang Division; Montgomery County (TX) Precinct One Constables Office; USA Immigration and Customs Enforcements Homeland Security Investigations; Texas Department of Criminal Justice; New Jersey Department of Corrections-Special Investigations Division; Indiana State Police; Fort Smith (AR) Police Department; Arkansas Department of Corrections; Arnold (MO) Police Department; Jefferson County (MO) Sheriffs Department; St.
Louis Metropolitan Police Department; St.
Louis County (MO) Police Department; Indiana Department of Corrections; Carrollton (TX) Police Department; Waller (TX) Police Department; Montgomery County (TX) Sheriffs Office; Travis County (TX) Sheriffs Office; Tarrant County (TX) Sheriffs Office; Evangeline Parish (LA) Sheriffs Office;Smith County (TX) Sheriffs Office; McCurtain County (OK) Sheriffs Office; Montgomery County (TX) District Attorneys Office; Liberty County (TX) District Attorneys Office; Harris County (TX) District Attorneys Office; Mercer County (NJ) District Attorneys Office; Evangeline Parish (LA) District Attorneys Office; and the Sebastian County (AR) District Attorneys Office.
The cases are being prosecuted by Trial Attorneys Bethany Lipman, Rebecca Dunnan, Lakeita Rox-Love, and Alexander Gottfried of the Criminal Divisions Organized Crime and Gang Section, Assistant USA Attorney Christopher Rapp of the Eastern District of Texas, Assistant USA Attorney Jeremiah Johnson of the Eastern District of Kentucky, and Special Assistant USA Attorney Michael FiggsGanter of the Southern District of Mississippi, with the assistance of the USA Attorneys Office for the District of New Jersey, the USA Attorneys Office for the Western District of Louisiana, and the USA Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of Missouri.
Attachment(s): Download Kentucky Indictment Download Holt and Hochheim Indictment Texas Download Klintman Indictment Texas Download Chunn Indictment Mississippi Download Chunn et al.
Indictment TexasComponent(s):Criminal DivisionCriminal - Organized Crime and Gang SectionUSAO - Kentucky, EasternUSAO - Mississippi, SouthernUSAO - Texas, EasternPress Release Number:20-1095
Updated November 6, 2020