https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/operation-legend-case-day-20
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, October 13, 2020
Operation Legend: Case of the Day
Ohio: Cleveland Man Charged with Drug Trafficking and Possessing a Firearm in Furtherance of a Drug Trafficking Crime
Each weekday, the Department of Justice will highlight a case that has resulted from Operation Legend.
Todays case is out of the Northern District of Ohio.
Operation Legend launched in Cleveland on July 29, 2020, in response to the city facing increased homicide and non-fatal shooting rates.
A Cleveland man has been charged with federal firearms and drug trafficking offenses after an Operation Legend taskforce conducted surveillance and executed a search warrant at the defendants residence and seized multiple firearms and illicit drugs.
Trafficking drugs by itself is a dangerous enterprise, but mix in several loaded firearms and some high-powered rifles, and the result is a deadly combination that could hurt many people in more ways than one, said USA Attorney Justin Herdman.
I want to thank law enforcement agents with DEA and Cleveland Police for their collaborative work to identify this individual and remove him from the community.

Angel Chacon, 37, of Cleveland, was charged with one count of possession with intent to distribute a controlled substance and one count of possessing a firearm in furtherance of a drug trafficking crime.
According to court documents, law enforcement agents working as part of an Operation Legend taskforce executed a search warrant at Chacons residence after observing drug trafficking activity and executing a controlled buy.
During the search of the property, agents allegedly located the following items: cocaine, marijuana, drug trafficking paraphernalia and supplies, $5,000, a 9mm pistol, 55 rounds of 9mm ammunition, a .
22 caliber rifle, 165 rounds of .
22 caliber rifle ammunition, a .
17 caliber rifle with five rounds of .
17 caliber ammunition, a custom .
223 caliber rifle with two magazines, 59 rounds of .
223 caliber ammunition and two bags of miscellaneous ammunition and magazines.
The details contained in the charging document are allegations.
The defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law.
Background on Operation Legend
Since its inception, Operation Legend has yielded more than 3,500 local, state, and federal arrests, with more than 800 defendants charged with federal crimes.
President Trump promised to assist Americas cities that have been plagued by violence.
In July, Attorney General William P.
Barr announced the launch of Operation Legend, a sustained, systematic and coordinated law enforcement initiative across all federal law enforcement agencies working in conjunction with state and local law enforcement officials to fight violent crime in cities across America that were experiencing an uptick in violence.
Operation Legend is named after four-year-old LeGend Taliferro, who was shot and killed on June 29th in Kansas City, Missouri, while asleep in his home.
Operation Legend was launched in Kansas City, Mo.
, on July 8, 2020, andexpanded to Chicago and Albuquerque onJuly 22, 2020; to Cleveland, Detroit, and Milwaukee onJuly 29, 2020; to St.
Louis and Memphis onAug.
6, 2020; and to Indianapolis onAug.
14, 2020.
As part of Operation Legend, Attorney General Barr has directed federal agents from the FBI, USA Marshals Service, DEA and ATF to surge resources to these cities to help state and local officials fighting violent crime.
The Department of Homeland Security is also contributing agents to these efforts in St.
Louis.
Topic(s):Operation LegendViolent CrimeComponent(s):Office of the Attorney GeneralPress Release Number:20-1090
Updated October 13, 2020