https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/american-contractor-pleads-guilty-conspiracy-steal-government-equipment-us-military-base
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, October 13, 2020
American Contractor Pleads Guilty to Conspiracy to Steal Government Equipment from USA Military Base in Afghanistan
An American military contractor pleaded guilty today to her role in a theft ring on a military installation in Kandahar, Afghanistan.
Acting Assistant Attorney General Brian Rabbit of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, USA Attorney G.
Zachary Terwilliger of the Eastern District of Virginia, and Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (SIGAR) John F.
Sopko made the announcement.
Varita V.
Quincy, 35, of Snellville, Georgia pleaded guilty before USA Magistrate Judge Douglas E.
Miller to one count of conspiracy to defraud the United States and one count of making false official statements.
Sentencing is set for Feb.
23, 2021 before Judge Rebecca Beach Smith.
Quincy admitted that, between April 2015 and July 2015, she, Larry J.
Green of Chesapeake, Virginia, and others conspired to steal, and did steal, equipment and property of value to the United States while working for a government contractor operating on Kandahar Airfield, in Kandahar, Afghanistan.
Kandahar Airfield was used by USA military forces to support USA military missions throughout Afghanistan.
Quincy was a supervisor in the office that issued security badges required for the movement of personnel and property on and off Kandahar Airfield.
Quincy admitted that as part of the conspiracy, Green identified items of value to steal, such as vehicles, generators, refrigerators, and other equipment.
Green negotiated the sale of those items with persons outside of the installation.
Quincy then facilitated the thefts by creating false official documents, or instructing those she supervised to prepare such documents, to facilitate the entry of unknown and unvetted Afghan nationals and their vehicles on to the military installation to remove the stolen property.
Quincy shared in the profits from this scheme.
The false documents she created, or directed others to create, were used to deceive security officers and gate guards and thereby compromised the security and safety of the military installation.
Quincys co-conspirator Green pleaded guilty on July 8, 2020, to one count of conspiracy to defraud the United States and commit theft of property of value to the United States worth over $300,000, one count of theft of property of value to the United States; and one count of aiding and abetting the submission of false statements.
His sentencing is scheduled for Nov.
19, 2020.
SIGAR investigated the case with help from Army Criminal Investigation Command (CID) and the 939th Military Police Detachment of the Indiana Army National Guard.
Trial Attorneys Sasha N.
Rutizer of the Criminal Divisions Human Rights and Special Prosecutions Section, Rosaleen OGara of the Criminal Divisions Public Integrity Section, and Assistant USA Attorney Joseph Kosky of the Eastern District of Virginia are prosecuting the case.
Component(s):Criminal DivisionCriminal - Human Rights and Special Prosecution SectionCriminal - Public Integrity SectionUSAO - Virginia, EasternPress Release Number:20-1089
Updated October 13, 2020