https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/houston-area-physician-and-anesthesiologist-sentenced-84-months-prison-role-health-care
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, October 9, 2020
Houston-Area Physician and Anesthesiologist Sentenced to 84 Months in Prison for Role in Health Care Benefit Scheme
A Houston-area physician and anesthesiologist at two registered pain clinics, Texas Pain Solutions and Integra Medical Clinic, was sentenced today to seven years in prison for his role in fraudulently billing health care programs for at least $5 million dollars in medical tests and procedures, and for the role his fraud played in multiple patient deaths.
Acting Assistant Attorney General Brian C.
Rabbitt of the Justice Departments Criminal Division, USA Attorney Ryan K.
Patrick of the Southern District of Texas, Montgomery County District Attorney Brett Ligon, Special Agent in Charge Will R.
Glaspy of the Drug Enforcement Administrations (DEA) Houston Division, and Special Agent in Charge Perrye K.
Turner of the FBIs Houston Field Office made the announcement.
Rezik Saqer, 66, of Houston, Texas, was sentenced by Chief USA District Judge Lee H.
Rosenthal of the Southern District of Texas.
Chief Judge Rosenthal also ordered the defendant to pay $5 million in restitution.
Saqer pleaded guilty on July 3, 2019, to one count of conspiracy to commit health care fraud.
According to the evidence presented at sentencing, Saqers health care fraud scheme involved luring vulnerable patients to his clinics by prescribing powerful opioid narcotics, and then requiring the patients to submit to unnecessary and dangerous procedures and tests, which were often performed by Saqers unlicensed staff and fraudulently billed to health care providers.
Saqers scheme contributed to multiple overdose deaths, as well as the death of a young family in an auto accident involving one of Saqers patients, according to the evidence.
According to the courts judgment, Saqer was responsible for fraudulently billing health care providers for at least $14,665,357.54.
This case was investigated by the Montgomery County District Attorneys Office, DEA, FBI, IRS-Criminal Investigation, Health and Human Services-Office of Inspector General, Conroe Police Department, USA Immigration and Customs Enforcements Homeland Security Investigations, and the Texas Department of Insurance.
Trial Attorneys Drew Pennebaker and Devon Helfmeyer of the Criminal Divisions Fraud Section and Assistant USA Attorney Tina Ansari of the Southern District of Texas are prosecuting the case.
The Fraud Section leads the Medicare Fraud Strike Force.
Since its inception in March 2007, the Medicare Fraud Strike Force, which maintains 15 strike forces operating in 24 districts, has charged more than 4,200 defendants who have collectively billed the Medicare program for nearly $19 billion.
In addition, the HHS Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, working in conjunction with the HHS-OIG, are taking steps to increase accountability and decrease the presence of fraudulent providers.
The year 2020 marks the 150th anniversary of the Department of Justice.
Learn more about the history of our agency at www.
Justice.gov/Celebrating150Years.
Topic(s):Health Care FraudComponent(s):Criminal DivisionCriminal - Criminal Fraud SectionUSAO - Texas, SouthernPress Release Number:20-1084
Updated November 6, 2020