https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/justice-department-settles-discrimination-claim-against-aerojet-rocketdyne-inc
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Monday, May 17, 2021
Justice Department Settles Discrimination Claim Against Aerojet Rocketdyne, Inc.
The Department of Justice today announced that it reached a settlement with Aerojet Rocketdyne Inc.
(Aerojet Rocketdyne), a rocket and missile propulsion manufacturer.
The settlement resolves a charge brought by a lawful permanent resident whom Aerojet Rocketdyne did not consider for a mechanic position because of his immigration status.
The departments investigation concluded that Aerojet Rocketdyne violated the anti-discrimination provision of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) when it only considered USA citizens for 12 mechanic positions in Jupiter, Florida, without legal justification.
Employers cannot limit positions only to USA citizens unless they have a legal requirement to do so, said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Pamela S.
Karlan of the Justice Departments Civil Rights Division.
The department commends Aerojet Rocketdyne for quickly changing its practices when it learned of the issue, and for its cooperation throughout the departments investigation.

Aerojet Rocketdyne builds and sells advanced propulsion and energetics systems to customers including the USA government and private companies.
The departments investigation determined that Aerojet Rocketdyne did not allow the Charging Party and other non-USA citizens to apply for 12 mechanic positions, based on their citizenship status.
The investigation also concluded that the company misunderstood its obligations under federal regulations, such as the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR), by mistakenly believing that they imposed restrictions on the companys ability to hire non-USA citizens, which they do not.
The investigation also determined that the company incorrectly believed that some of its government contracts required it to fill the 12 mechanic positions with USA citizens.
When it learned of the investigation, Aerojet Rocketdyne was forthcoming and quickly changed its practices to avoid future discrimination.
The INA protects USA citizens, non-citizen nationals, refugees, asylees, and recent lawful permanent residents from hiring discrimination based on citizenship status.
The law has an exception if an employer or recruiter is required to limit jobs due to a law, regulation, executive order, or government contract.
Todays settlement agreement requires Aerojet Rocketdyne to take several steps to ensure it follows the law, including training its employees who conduct hiring in its Jupiter, Florida location.
The company also must pay a $37,008 civil penalty.
As with its other settlements, the department will monitor the company to make sure it is complying with the agreement.
The Civil Rights Divisions Immigrant and Employee Rights Section (IER) is responsible for enforcing discrimination protections under the INA.
The law prohibitscitizenship status and national origin discriminationin hiring, firing, or recruitment or referral for a fee;unfair documentary practices; andretaliation and intimidation.
Learn more about citizenship status discrimination under the INA here.
Learn more about IERs work and how to get assistance through this briefvideo.
Applicants or employees who believe they were discriminated against based on their citizenship, immigration status, or national origin in hiring, firing, recruitment, or during the employment eligibility verification process (Form I-9 and E-Verify); or subjected to retaliation, may file a charge.
The public also may contact IERs worker hotline at 1-800-255-7688; call IERs employer hotline at 1-800-255-8155 (1-800-237-2515, TTY for hearing impaired); emailIER@usdoj.gov; sign up for a freewebinar; or visit IERsEnglishandSpanishwebsites.
Subscribe toGovDeliveryto receive updates from IER.
Attachment(s): Download AgreementTopic(s):Civil RightsComponent(s):Civil Rights DivisionCivil Rights - Immigrant and Employee Rights SectionPress Release Number:21-453
Updated May 17, 2021