https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/justice-department-charges-500-domestic-violence-related-firearm-cases-fiscal-year-2020
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, October 7, 2020
Justice Department Charges 500+ Domestic Violence-Related Firearm Cases in Fiscal Year 2020
Today, the Justice Department announced it has charged more than 500 domestic violence cases involving firearms during Fiscal Year (FY) 2020.
A department priority since 2019 when Attorney General William P.
Barr created the Department of Justices first ever-Domestic Violence Working Group, these charges are the result of the critical law enforcement partnership between USA Attorneys Offices and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, led by Acting Director Regina Lombardo, who has made domestic violence firearms-related investigations a priority.
Keeping firearms out of the hands of dangerous criminal offenders is one of the Department of Justices top priorities, said Attorney General Barr.
This is especially important when it comes to individuals with prior domestic violence convictions.
The statistics are clear that when domestic violence offenders have access to guns, their partners and their families are at much greater risk of falling victim to gun violence.
In fact, in some communities across America, roughly half of the homicides are related to domestic violence.
The Department of Justice is committed to keeping guns out of the hands of those who are prohibited from having them, and we will continue investigating and prosecuting all domestic violence firearms related crimes.

According to the CDC, data suggests that about one in six homicide victims are killed by an intimate partner, said ATF Acting Director Lombardo.
Nearly half of female homicide victims in the USA are killed by a current or former male intimate partner.
ATF is committed to aggressively pursuing prohibited possession of firearms due to domestic violence convictions and certain protective orders.
It is another way we prevent violent gun crime within our communities.

Under federal law, individuals with domestic violence misdemeanor and felony convictions, as well as individuals subject to domestic violence protective orders, are prohibited from possessing firearms.
The data shows that offenders with domestic violence in their past pose a high risk of homicide.
In fact, domestic violence abusers with a gun in the home are five times more likely to kill their partners.
The Working Group, chaired by USA Attorney Erin Nealy Cox, of the Northern District of Texas, disseminates legal guidance on keeping guns out of the hands of domestic violence abusers using three federal statutes:
18 USC  922 (g)(1), felon in possession of a firearm
18 USC  922 (g)(9), possession of a firearm by a prohibited person (misdemeanor crime of domestic violence)
18 USC  922 (g)(8), possession of a firearm while subject to a domestic violence protective order
Based on the Working Groups guidance, in FY 2020, USA Attorneys Offices nationwide brought 337 domestic violence felon-in-possession charges, 54 possession while subject to a protective order charges, and 142 possession by a prohibited person charges.
For more information on domestic violence or to get help, visit the National Domestic Violence Hotline website or call 1-800-799-SAFE (7233).
Topic(s):Firearms OffensesComponent(s):Office of the Attorney GeneralUSAO - Texas, NorthernPress Release Number:20-1063
Updated October 7, 2020