https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/operation-legend-case-day-17
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Friday, October 2, 2020
Operation Legend: Case of the Day
New Mexico: Albuquerque Man Charged with Federal Drug and Firearm Offenses
Each weekday, the Department of Justice will highlight a case that has resulted from Operation Legend.
Todays case is out of the District of New Mexico.
Operation Legend launched in Albuquerque on July 22, 2020, in response to the city facing increased homicide and non-fatal shooting rates.
An Albuquerque man was charged on Sept.
29, 2020, in federal court for possessing fentanyl, heroin, and more than a kilo of methamphetamine, as well as four firearms.
Toby Randall Walker, 36, was charged with possession with intent to distribute 500 grams and more of a mixture and substance containing methamphetamine, possession with intent to distribute 40 grams and more of fentanyl, possession with intent to distribute heroin and possession of a firearm in furtherance of drug trafficking.
According to the charging documents, on Sept.
29, agents from the Drug Enforcement Administration encountered Walker and located 1,490 grams of methamphetamine, 53.7 grams of fentanyl and 67 grams of heroin in his vehicle.
Agents also located four firearms.
The details contained in the charging document are allegations.
The defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law.
Background on Operation Legend
Since its inception, Operation Legend has yielded more than 3,500 local, state, and federal arrests, with more than 800 defendants charged with federal crimes.
President Trump promised to assist Americas cities that have been plagued by violence.
In July, Attorney General William P.
Barr announced the launch of Operation Legend, a sustained, systematic and coordinated law enforcement initiative across all federal law enforcement agencies working in conjunction with state and local law enforcement officials to fight violent crime in cities across America that were experiencing an uptick in violence.
Operation Legend is named after four-year-old LeGend Taliferro, who was shot and killed on June 29th in Kansas City, Missouri, while asleep in his home.
Operation Legend was launched in Kansas City, Mo.
, on July 8, 2020, andexpanded to Chicago and Albuquerque onJuly 22, 2020; to Cleveland, Detroit, and Milwaukee onJuly 29, 2020; to St.
Louis and Memphis onAug.
6, 2020; and to Indianapolis onAug.
14, 2020.
As part of Operation Legend, Attorney General Barr has directed federal agents from the FBI, USA Marshals Service, DEA and ATF to surge resources to these cities to help state and local officials fighting violent crime.
The Department of Homeland Security is also contributing agents to these efforts in St.
Louis.
Topic(s):Operation LegendViolent CrimeComponent(s):Office of the Attorney GeneralPress Release Number:20-1047
Updated October 2, 2020