https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/execution-scheduled-federal-death-row-inmate-convicted-murdering-child
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Wednesday, September 30, 2020
Execution Scheduled for Federal Death Row Inmate Convicted of Murdering a Child
Attorney General William P.
Barr today directed the Federal Bureau of Prisons to schedule the execution of Orlando Cordia Hall, who was sentenced to death after kidnapping, raping, and murdering a 16-year-old girl in 1994.
In September 1994, Hall and several accomplices ran a marijuana trafficking operation out of Pine Bluff, Arkansas.
After a failed drug transaction involving $4,700, Hall and his accomplices went to the Arlington, Texas, home of a man they believed had reneged on the deal.
The mans 16-year-old sister, Lisa Rene, answered the door.
Although she was simply an innocent bystander, Hall and his accomplices kidnapped her at gunpoint, and Hall raped her in the car.
Halls accomplices subsequently drove her to a motel in Arkansas, where they raped her several more times.
Hall and his accomplices then took her to a park where they had dug a grave.
There, they beat her over the head with a shovel, soaked her with gasoline, and buried her alive.
In October 1995, a jury in the USA District Court for the Northern District of Texas found Hall guilty of, among other offenses, kidnapping resulting in death, and unanimously recommended a death sentence, which the court imposed.
Halls convictions and sentences were affirmed on appeal more than 20 years ago, and his initial round of collateral challenges failed nearly 15 years ago.
In 2006, Hall received a preliminary injunction from a federal district court in Washington, D.
C.
, based on his challenge to the then-existing federal lethal-injection protocol.
That injunction was vacated by the district court on Sept.
20, 2020, making Hall the only child murderer on federal death row who is eligible for execution and not subject to a stay or injunction.
Halls execution is scheduled for Nov.
19, 2020, at USA Penitentiary Terre Haute, Indiana.
Component(s):Office of the Attorney GeneralPress Release Number:20-1,034
Updated September 30, 2020