https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/department-justice-awards-more-92-million-support-offenders-returning-communities
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, September 29, 2020
Department of Justice Awards More than $92 Million to Support Offenders Returning to Communities
The Department of Justices Office of Justice Programs today announced awards totaling more than $92 million to reduce recidivism among adults and juvenile offenders returning to their communities after confinement.
OJPs Bureau of Justice Assistance (BJA), National Institute of Justice (NIJ) and Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention (OJJDP) awarded grants to jurisdictions, research institutions and other organizations in support of proven science-based approaches to reintegrate offenders into communities.
President Trump is a staunch supporter of providing a second chance to incarcerated individuals reentering our communities.
In 2018, he signed into law the First Step Act, including reauthorization of the Second Chance Act, the biggest piece of criminal justice reform legislation to be enacted in more than a decade.
He also directed the establishment of the Federal Interagency Council on Crime Prevention and Improving Reentry and tapped Pastor Tony Lowden to be its executive director.
President Trump has declared April as Second Chance Month for the past four years, and these awards represent his Administrations commitment to assisting people in Americas prisons and detention facilities who have earned the opportunity to take their places back in society.
Former offenders are ultimately responsible for their own successes and failures, but our criminal and juvenile justice systems have an important role to play in preparing them for the obstacles that lie before them, said OJP Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Katharine T.
Sullivan.
Im very pleased to make these resources available to helpoffenders get back on their feet and contribute to the prosperity of their communities and the betterment of our nation.
I saw these programs work first hand in my time as a judge and am so grateful for the hard-working people who are helping our reentering population.

Fiscal Year 2020 reentry and recidivism reduction grants awarded include the following:
More than $71.4 million under BJAs grant programs designed to help communities develop and implement comprehensive and collaborative strategies to address the challenges posed by reentry and recidivism.
More than $11.2 million under OJJDPs Second Chance Act suite of grant programs to support reentry services for detained juveniles and incarcerated parents with children under the age of 18.
More than $9.3 million under NIJs reentry research and evaluation programs, which support rigorous research to advance understanding about reoffending and the success of reentry strategies, programs and practices.
This includes evaluating innovative reentry initiatives that specifically focus on juveniles, young adults and adults with a moderate-to-high risk of reoffending.
For a complete list of individual grant programs, amounts to be awarded, and the jurisdictions that will receive funding, visit:https://www.
ojp.gov/sites/g/files/xyckuh241/files/media/document/reentryfactsheet.
pdf.
Additional information about FY 2020 grant awards made by the Office of Justice Programs can be found online at theOJP Awards Data Webpage.
The Office of Justice Programs, directed by Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Katharine T.
Sullivan, provides federal leadership, grants, training, technical assistance and other resources to improve the nations capacity to prevent and reduce crime,assist victims and enhance the rule of law by strengthening the criminal and juvenile justice systems.
More information about OJP and its components can be found atwww.
ojp.gov.
Topic(s):GrantsComponent(s):Office of Justice Programs (OJP)Press Release Number:20-1022
Updated September 29, 2020