https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/chinese-national-sentenced-laundering-millions-mexican-drug-cartels
Department of Justice
Office of Public Affairs
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, September 29, 2020
Chinese National Sentenced for Laundering Millions for Mexican Drug Cartels
A Chinese national was sentenced today to five years in prison and ordered to forfeit more than $4.2 million for laundering drug proceeds generated by large-scale cocaine trafficking in the United States.
Acting Assistant Attorney General Brian C.
Rabbitt of the Justice Departments Criminal Division; USA Attorney G.
Zachary Terwilliger for the Eastern District of Virginia; Special Agent in Charge Wendy C.
Woolcock for the USA Drug Enforcement Administrations (DEA) Special Operations Division; Special Agent in Charge Jeffrey T.
Scott of DEAs Louisville, Kentucky Field Division; Chief Jason Crosby of the Criminal Investigations Division of the USA Department of States Diplomatic Security Service (DSS); and Special Agent in Charge James Gibbons of USA Immigration and Customs Enforcements (ICE) Homeland Security Investigations (HSI) Chicago, Illinois made the announcement after sentencing by USA District Judge Leonie M.
Brinkema for the Eastern District of Virginia.
According to court documents, Xueyong Wu, 40, cultivated relationships with Latin American drug trafficking organizations to transport and launder their United States-based drug proceeds.
Much of this money was repatriated to Mexico through a complex series of international financial transactions.
Wu received a percentage of the money involved in these transactions as compensation for organizing these laundering activities.
Much of this money was generated through movement of cocaine or payment for cocaine that took place within the Eastern District of Virginia.
Trial Attorneys Steve Sola and Kerry Blackburn of the Criminal Divisions Money Laundering and Asset Recovery Section and Assistant USA Attorneys Michael P.
BenAry and David A.
Peters prosecuted the case.
The year 2020 marks the 150th anniversary of the Department of Justice.
Learn more about the history of our agency atwww.
Justice.gov/Celebrating150Years.
Topic(s):Drug TraffickingFinancial FraudComponent(s):Criminal DivisionCriminal - Money Laundering and Asset Recovery SectionUSAO - Virginia, EasternPress Release Number:20-1021
Updated September 29, 2020