https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Irregular_galaxy
Irregular galaxy
An irregular galaxy is a galaxy that does not have a distinct regular shape, unlike a spiral or an elliptical galaxy. Irregular galaxies do not fall into any of the regular classes of the Hubble sequence, and they are often chaotic in appearance, with neither a nuclear bulge nor any trace of spiral arm structure.
Collectively they are thought to make up about a quarter of all galaxies. Some irregular galaxies were once spiral or elliptical galaxies but were deformed by an uneven external gravitational force. Irregular galaxies may contain abundant amounts of gas and dust. This is not necessarily true for dwarf irregulars.
Irregular galaxies are commonly small, about one tenth the mass of the Milky Way galaxy.  Due to their small sizes, they are prone to environmental effects like crashing with large galaxies and intergalactic clouds.
There are three major types of irregular galaxies:
Some of the irregular galaxies, especially of the Magellanic type, are small spiral galaxies that are being distorted by the gravity of a larger neighbor.
The Magellanic Cloud galaxies were once classified as irregular galaxies. The Large Magellanic Cloud has since been re-classified as type SBm  a type of barred spiral galaxy, the barred Magellanic spiral type. The Small Magellanic Cloud remains classified as an irregular galaxy of type Im under current Galaxy morphological classification, although it does contain a bar structure.
Blue compact dwarf galaxy ESO 338-4.
IC 4710 lies roughly 25 million light-years away in the southern constellation of Pavo.
ESO 486-21 is a spiral galaxy with a somewhat irregular and ill-defined structure.
Irregular galaxy IC 3583 has been found to have a bar of stars running through its center.
NGC 2337 is an irregular galaxy that resides 25 million light-years away in the constellation of Lynx.
UGC 4459 is an irregular dwarf galaxy located approximately 11 million light-years away in the constellation of Ursa Major.
Dwarf irregular galaxy known as PGC 18431.
IC 559 is classified as a type Sm galaxy.
Irregular dwarf galaxy PGC 16389 covers its neighboring galaxy APMBGC 252+125-117.